Long-term outcome of acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMKL) patients without Down's syndrome remains poor. Founding mutations and chimeric oncogenes characterize various AMKL subtypes. However, for around one third of all cases the underlying mechanisms of AMKL leukemogenesis are still largely unknown. Recently, an in-frame fusion of meningeoma 1–friend leukemia virus integration 1 (MN1–Fli1) gene was detected in a child with AMKL. We intended to investigate the potential role of this oncofusion in leukemogenesis of acute myeloid leukemia. Strikingly, expression of MN1–Fli1 in murine hematopoietic progenitor cells was sufficient to induce leukemic transformation generating immature myeloid cells with cytomorphology and expression of surface markers typical for AMKL. Systematic structure function analyses revealed FLS and 3′ETS domains of Fli1 as decisive domains for the AMKL phenotype. Our data highlight an important role of MN1–Fli1 in AMKL leukemogenesis and provide a basis for research assessing the value of this oncofusion as a future diagnostic marker and/or therapeutic target in AMKL patients.
Protein–protein interactions (PPIs) and microRNA (miRNA)–target interactions are important for deciphering the mechanisms of tumorigenesis. However, current PPI databases do not support cancer-specific analysis. Also, no available databases can be used to retrieve cancer-associated miRNA–target interactions. As the pathogenesis of human cancers is affected by several miRNAs rather than a single miRNA, it is needed to uncover miRNA synergism in a systems level. Here for each cancer type, we constructed a miRNA–miRNA functionally synergistic network based on the functions of miRNA targets and their topological features in that cancer PPI network. And for the first time, we report the cancer-specific database CancerNet (http://bis.zju.edu.cn/CancerNet), which contains information about PPIs, miRNA–target interactions and functionally synergistic miRNA–miRNA pairs across 33 human cancer types. In addition, PPI information across 33 main normal tissues and cell types are included. Flexible query methods are allowed to retrieve cancer molecular interactions. Network viewer can be used to visualize interactions that users are interested in. Enrichment analysis tool was designed to detect significantly overrepresented Gene Ontology categories of miRNA targets. Thus, CancerNet serves as a comprehensive platform for assessing the roles of proteins and miRNAs, as well as their interactions across human cancers.
The antitumor drug etoposide (ETO) is widely used in treating several cancers, including adrenocortical tumor (ACT). However, when used at sublethal doses, tumor cells still survive and are more susceptible to the recurring tumor due to centrosome amplification. Here, we checked the effect of sublethal dose of ETO in ACT cells. Sublethal dose of ETO treatment did not induce cell death but arrested the ACT cells in G2/M phase. This resulted in centrosome amplification and aberrant mitotic spindle formation leading to genomic instability and cellular senescence. Under such conditions, Chk2, cyclin A/CDK2 and ERK1/2 were aberrantly activated. Pharmacological inactivation of Chk2, CDK2 or ERK1/2 or depletion of CDK2 or Chk2 inhibited the centrosome amplification in ETO-treated ACT cells. In addition, autophagy was activated by ETO and was required for ACT cell survival. Chloroquine, the autophagy inhibitor, reduced ACT cell growth and inhibited ETO-induced centrosome amplification. Chloroquine alleviated CDK2 and ERK, but not Chk2, activation and thus inhibited centrosome amplification in either ETO- or hydroxyurea-treated ACT cells. In addition, chloroquine also inhibited centrosome amplification in osteosarcoma U2OS cell lines when treated with ETO or hydroxyurea. In summary, we have demonstrated that chloroquine inhibited ACT cell growth and alleviated DNA damage-induced centrosome amplification by inhibiting CDK2 and ERK activity, thus preventing genomic instability and recurrence of ACT.
Here we report that promoter mutations in telomerase (TERT), the most common noncoding mutations in cancer, give rise to monoallelic expression of TERT. Through deep RNA sequencing, we find that TERT activation in human cancer cell lines can occur in either mono- or biallelic manner. Without exception, hotspot TERT promoter mutations lead to the re-expression of only one allele, accounting for approximately half of the observed cases of monoallelic TERT expression. Furthermore, we show that monoallelic TERT expression is highly prevalent in certain tumor types and widespread across a broad spectrum of cancers. Taken together, these observations provide insights into the mechanisms of TERT activation and the ramifications of noncoding mutations in cancer.
Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling is critical during normal development, and the abnormal activation of the Shh pathway is involved in many human cancers. As a target gene of the Shh pathway and as a transcription activator downstream of Shh signaling, Gli1 autoregulates and increases Shh signaling output. Gli1 is one of the key oncogenic factors in Shh-induced tumors such as medulloblastoma. Gli1 is posttranslationally modified, but the nature of the active form of Gli1 was unclear. Here we identified a Src family kinase Hck as a novel activator of Gli1. In Shh-responsive NIH3T3 cells, Hck interacts with Gli1 and phosphorylates multiple tyrosine residues in Gli1. Gli1-mediated target gene activation was significantly enhanced by Hck with both kinase activity-dependent and -independent mechanisms. We provide evidence showing that Hck disrupts the interaction between Gli1 and its inhibitor Sufu. In both NIH3T3 cells and cerebellum granule neuron precursors, the Hck gene is also a direct target of Gli1. Therefore, Gli1 and Hck form a positive feedback loop that amplifies Shh signaling transcription outcomes. In Shh-induced medulloblastoma, Hck is highly expressed and Gli1 is tyrosine phosphorylated, which may enhance the tumorigenic effects of the Gli1 oncogene. RNAi-mediated inhibition of Hck expression significantly repressed medulloblastoma cell growth. In summary, a novel positive feedback loop contributes to maximal Gli1 oncogenic activities in Shh-induced tumors such as medulloblastoma.
Gastric cancer (GC) is the leading malignancy in the digestive system. Versican is a ubiquitous component of the extracellular matrix and has a role in tumor progression. We aim to examine the expression of Versican in GC and the relationship between Versican levels and patient survival. We detected the mRNA expression of Versican in tumorous pairs and adjacent normal tissues (ANTs) of 78 GC patients by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The protein expression of Versican in 101 cases of matched GC and ANT, as well as in 27 intraepithelial neoplastic (IN) samples, was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. We analyzed the correlation between Versican levels and clinical outcomes. Finally, we performed CCK-8 cell counting assay and transwell assay in GC cell lines. Versican mRNA expression was significantly greater in tumor tissues (P<0.001) than in ANT. Versican was majorly expressed in the stroma surrounding tumor epithelium and minorly some areas of tumor epithelium. The Versican expression level was higher in GC than in ANT (P=0.004), but no significant difference was observed between ANT and IN (P=0.517). The Versican mRNA and protein levels were consistent in GC. High Versican mRNA and protein expression correlated with greater tumor invasion depth (P=0.030, P=0.027). Univariate and multivariate analysis revealed that patients with high Versican mRNA expression exhibited poor disease-specific survival (P<0.001). In vitro experiments showed that Versican overexpression promoted cell proliferation and invasion. Our data indicate that Versican may be a novel prognostic indicator in GC and may be a potential target for clinical diagnosis.
Extensive cancer research in the past few decades has identified the existence of a rare subpopulation of stem cells in the grove of cancer cells. These cells are known as the cancer stem cells marked by the presence of surface biomarkers, multi-drug resistance pumps and deregulated self-renewal pathways (SRPs). They have a crucial role in provoking cancer cells leading to tumorigenesis and its progressive metastasis. Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are much alike to normal stem cells in their self-renewal mechanisms. However, deregulations in the SRPs are seen in CSCs, making them resistant to conventional chemotherapeutic agents resulting in the tumor recurrence. Current treatment strategies in cancer fail to detect and differentiate the CSCs from their non-tumorigenic progenies owing to absence of specific biomarkers. Now, it has become imperative to understand complex functional biology of CSCs, especially the signaling pathways to design improved treatment strategies to target them. It is hopeful that the SRPs in CSCs offer a promising target to alter their survival strategies and impede their tumorigenic potential. However, there are many perils associated with the direct targeting method by conventional therapeutic agents such as off targets, poor bioavailability and poor cellular distribution. Recent evidences have shown an increased use of small molecule antagonists directly to target these SRPs may lead to severe side-effects. An alternative to solve these issues could be an appropriate nanoformulation. Nanoformulations of these molecules could provide an added advantage for the selective targeting of the pathways especially Hedgehog, Wnt, Notch and B-cell-specific moloney murine leukemia virus integration site 1 in the CSCs while sparing the normal stem cells. Hence, to achieve this goal a complete understanding of the molecular pathways corroborate with the use of holistic nanosystem (nanomaterial inhibition molecule) could possibly be an encouraging direction for future cancer therapy.
Cancer is a disease of genome instability and genomic alterations; now, genomic heterogeneity is rapidly emerging as a defining feature of cancer, both within and between tumors. Motivation for our pilot study of tumor heterogeneity in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is that it is not well studied, but the highest incidences of esophageal cancers are found in China and ESCC is the most common type. We profiled the mutations and changes in copy number that were identified by whole-exome sequencing and array-based comparative genomic hybridization in multiple regions within an ESCC from two patients. The average mutational heterogeneity rate was 90% in all regions of the individual tumors in each patient; most somatic point mutations were nonsynonymous substitutions, small Indels occurred in untranslated regions of genes, and copy number alterations varied among multiple regions of a tumor. Independent Sanger sequencing technology confirmed selected gene mutations with more than 88% concordance. Phylogenetic analysis of the somatic mutation frequency demonstrated that multiple, genomically heterogeneous divergent clones evolve and co-exist within a primary ESCC and metastatic subclones result from the dispersal and adaptation of an initially non-metastatic parental clone. Therefore, a single-region sampling will not reflect the evolving architecture of a genomically heterogeneous landscape of mutations in ESCC tumors and the divergent complexity of this genomic heterogeneity among patients will complicate any promise of a simple genetic or epigenetic diagnostic signature in ESCC. We conclude that any potential for informative biomarker discovery in ESCC and targeted personalized therapies will require a deeper understanding of the functional biology of the ontogeny and phylogeny of the tumor heterogeneity.
NUT midline carcinoma (NMC) is a fatal cancer that arises in various tissues along the upper midline of the body. The defining molecular feature of NMC is a chromosomal translocation that joins (in the majority of cases) the nuclear testis gene NUT (NUTM1) to the bromodomain protein family member 4 (BRD4) and thereby creating a fusion oncogene that disrupts cellular differentiation and drives the disease. In this study, we report the case of an adolescent NMC patient presenting with severe facial pain, proptosis and visual impairment due to a mass arising from the ethmoid sinus that invaded the right orbit and frontal lobe. Treatment involved radical resection, including exenteration of the affected eye with the view to consolidate treatment with radiation therapy; however, the patient experienced rapid tumor progression and passed away 79 days post resection. Molecular analysis of the tumor tissue identified a novel in-frame BRD4-NUT transcript, with BRD4 exon 15 fused to the last 124 nucleotides of NUT exon 2 (BRD4-NUT ex15:ex2Δnt1–585). The partial deletion of NUT exon 2 was attributed to a mid-exonic genomic breakpoint and the subsequent activation of a cryptic splice site further downstream within the exon. Inhibition of the canonical 3′ acceptor splice site of NUT intron 1 in cell lines expressing the most common NMC fusion transcripts (PER-403, BRD4-NUT ex11:ex2; PER-624, BRD4-NUT ex15:ex2) induced alternative splicing from the same cryptic splice site as identified in the patient. Detection of low levels of an in-frame BRD4-NUT ex11:ex2Δnt1–585 transcript in PER-403 confirmed endogenous splicing from this alternative exon 2 splice site. Although further studies are necessary to assess the clinical relevance of the increasing number of variant fusions described in NMC, the findings presented in this case identify alternative splicing as a mechanism that contributes to this pathogenic complexity.
TIFA (TNF receptor associated factor (TRAF)-interacting protein with a Forkhead-associated (FHA) domain), also called T2BP, was first identified using a yeast two-hybrid screening. TIFA contains a FHA domain, which directly binds phosphothreonine and phosphoserine, and a consensus TRAF6-binding motif. TIFA-mediated oligomerization and poly-ubiquitinylation of TRAF6 mediates signaling downstream of the Tumor necrosis factor alpha receptor 1 (TNFaR-I) and interleukin-1/Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) pathways. Examining TIFA expression in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissues microarrays, we noted marked decreases TIFA reactivity in tumor versus control samples. In agreement, we found that HCC cell lines show reduced TIFA expression levels versus normal liver controls. Reconstituting TIFA expression in HCC cell lines promoted two independent apoptosis signaling pathways: the induction of p53 and cell cycle arrest, and the activation of caspase-8 and caspase-3. In contrast, the expression of a non-oligomerizing mutant of TIFA impacted cells minimally, and suppression of TIFA expression protected cells from apoptosis. Mice bearing TIFA overexpression hepatocellular xenografts develop smaller tumors versus TIFA mutant tumors; terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling staining demonstrates increased cell apoptosis, and decreased proliferation, reflecting cell cycle arrest. Interestingly, p53 has a greater role in decreased proliferation than cell death, as it appeared dispensable for TIFA-induced cell killing. The findings demonstrate a novel suppressive role of TIFA in HCC progression via promotion of cell death independent of p53.
Although RNA interference (RNAi) knockdown screening of cancer cell cultures is an effective approach to predict drug targets or therapeutic/prognostic biomarkers, interactions among identified targets often remain obscure. Here, we introduce the nodes-and-connections RNAi knockdown screening that generates a map of target interactions through systematic iterations of in silico prediction of targets and their experimental validation. An initial RNAi knockdown screening of MCF-7 human breast cancer cells targeting 6560 proteins identified four signaling molecules required for their fulvestrant-induced apoptosis. Signaling molecules physically or functionally interacting with these four primary node targets were computationally predicted and experimentally validated, resulting in identification of four second-generation nodes. Three rounds of further iterations of the prediction–validation cycle generated third, fourth and fifth generation of nodes, completing a 19-node interaction map that contained three predicted nodes but without experimental validation because of technical limitations. The interaction map involved all three members of the death-associated protein kinases (DAPKs) as well as their upstream and downstream signaling molecules (calmodulins and myosin light chain kinases), suggesting that DAPKs play critical roles in the cytocidal action of fulvestrant. The in silico Kaplan–Meier analysis of previously reported human breast cancer cohorts demonstrated significant prognostic predictive power for five of the experimentally validated nodes and for three of the prediction-only nodes. Immunohistochemical studies on the expression of 10 nodal proteins in human breast cancer tissues not only supported their prognostic prediction power but also provided statistically significant evidence of their synchronized expression, implying functional interactions among these nodal proteins. Thus, the Nodes-and-Connections approach to RNAi knockdown screening yields biologically meaningful outcomes by taking advantage of the existing knowledge of the physical and functional interactions between the predicted target genes. The resulting interaction maps provide useful information on signaling pathways cooperatively involved in clinically important features of the malignant cells, such as drug resistance.
Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) is a γ-herpesvirus associated with human epithelial and B-cell malignancies. The EBV latent membrane protein (LMP) 1 is expressed in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) and promotes oncogenic intracellular signaling mechanisms. LMP1 also promotes a pro-migratory phenotype through potential effects on cell surface proteins, as expression of LMP1 induces an epithelial–mesenchymal transition (EMT) in epithelial cell lines. In this study, LMP1 was examined for potential effects on cadherin and integrin surface interactions, and assessed for biological effects on adhesion and motility to fibronectin. Expression of LMP1 in the non-tumorigenic epithelial cell line MCF10a induced an EMT-associated cadherin switch. The induced N-cadherin was ligated and localized to the cell surface as determined by triton-solubility and immunofluorescence assays. In addition, LMP1 induced the assembly of focal adhesions (FAs) with increased production of fibronectin in MCF10a and NP460hTERT-immortalized nasopharyngeal cells. Biochemical enrichment of fibronectin-associated proteins indicated that LMP1 selectively promoted the recruitment of integrin-α5 and Src family kinase proteins to FA complexes. Neutralizing antibodies to N-cadherin and integrin-α5, but not integrin-αV, blocked the adhesion and transwell motility of MCF10a cells to fibronectin induced by LMP1. LMP1-induced transwell motility was also decreased by Src inhibition with the PP2 kinase inhibitor and short hairpin RNAs. These studies reveal that LMP1 has multiple mechanisms to promote the adhesive and migratory properties of epithelial cells through induction of fibronectin and modulation of cell surface interactions involving integrin-α5 and N-cadherin, which may contribute to the metastatic potential of NPC.
MicroRNAs (miRs) have been recognized as promising biomarkers. It is unknown to what extent tumor-derived miRs are differentially expressed between primary colorectal cancers (pCRCs) and metastatic lesions, and to what extent the expression profiles of tumor tissue differ from the surrounding normal tissue. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) of 220 fresh-frozen samples, including paired primary and metastatic tumor tissue and non-tumorous tissue from 38 patients, revealed expression of 2245 known unique mature miRs and 515 novel candidate miRs. Unsupervised clustering of miR expression profiles of pCRC tissue with paired metastases did not separate the two entities, whereas unsupervised clustering of miR expression profiles of pCRC with normal colorectal mucosa demonstrated complete separation of the tumor samples from their paired normal mucosa. Two hundred and twenty-two miRs differentiated both pCRC and metastases from normal tissue samples (false discovery rate (FDR) <0.05). The highest expressed tumor-specific miRs were miR-21 and miR-92a, both previously described to be involved in CRC with potential as circulating biomarker for early detection. Only eight miRs, 0.5% of the analysed miR transcriptome, were differentially expressed between pCRC and the corresponding metastases (FDR <0.1), consisting of five known miRs (miR-320b, miR-320d, miR-3117, miR-1246 and miR-663b) and three novel candidate miRs (chr 1-2552-5p, chr 8-20656-5p and chr 10-25333-3p). These results indicate that previously unrecognized candidate miRs expressed in advanced CRC were identified using NGS. In addition, miR expression profiles of pCRC and metastatic lesions are highly comparable and may be of similar predictive value for prognosis or response to treatment in patients with advanced CRC.
Aberrations in the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway have a key role in the pathogenesis of numerous cancers by altering cell growth, metabolism, proliferation and apoptosis. Interest in targeting the PI3K signaling cascade continues, as new agents are being clinically evaluated. PIK3CA mutations result in a constitutively active PI3K and are present in a subset of pancreatic cancers. Here we examine mutant PIK3CA-mediated pancreatic tumorigenesis and the response of PIK3CA mutant pancreatic cancers to dual PI3K/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibition. Two murine models were generated expressing a constitutively active PI3K within the pancreas. An increase in acinar-to-ductal metaplasia and pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasms (PanINs) was identified. In one model these lesions were detected as early as 10 days of age. Invasive pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma developed in these mice as early as 20 days of age. These cancers were highly sensitive to treatment with dual PI3K/mTOR inhibition. In the second model, PanINs and invasive cancer develop with a greater latency owing to a lesser degree of PI3K pathway activation in this murine model. In addition to PI3K pathway activation, increased ERK1/2 signaling is common in human pancreatic cancers. Phosphorylation of ERK1/2 was also investigated in these models. Phosphorylation of ERK1/2 is demonstrated in the pre-neoplastic lesions and invasive cancers. This activation of ERK1/2 is diminished with dual PI3K/mTOR inhibition. In summary, PIK3CA mutations can initiate pancreatic tumorigenesis and these cancers are particularly sensitive to dual PI3K/mTOR inhibition. Future studies of PI3K pathway inhibitors for patients with PIK3CA mutant pancreatic cancers are warranted.
Liver kinase B1 (LKB1), also known as serine/threonine kinase 11 (STK11), has been identified as a tumor suppressor in many cancers including breast. Low LKB1 expression has been associated with poor prognosis of breast cancer patients, and we report here a significant association between loss of LKB1 expression and reduced patient survival specifically in the basal subtype of breast cancer. Owing to the aggressive nature of the basal subtype as evidenced by high incidences of metastasis, the purpose of this study was to determine if LKB1 expression could regulate the invasive and metastatic properties of this specific breast cancer subtype. Induction of LKB1 expression in basal-like breast cancer (BLBC)/triple-negative breast cancer cell lines, MDA-MB-231 and BT-549, inhibited invasiveness in vitro and lung metastatic burden in an orthotopic xenograft model. Further analysis of BLBC cells overexpressing LKB1 by unbiased whole transcriptomics (RNA-sequencing) revealed striking regulation of metastasis-associated pathways, including cell adhesion, extracellular matrix remodeling, and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). In addition, LKB1 overexpression inhibited EMT-associated genes (CDH2, Vimentin, Twist) and induced the epithelial cell marker CDH1, indicating reversal of the EMT phenotype in the MDA-MB-231 cells. We further demonstrated marked inhibition of matrix metalloproteinase 1 expression and activity via regulation of c-Jun through inhibition of p38 signaling in LKB1-expressing cells. Taken together, these data support future development of LKB1 inducing therapeutics for the suppression of invasion and metastasis of BLBC.
The forkhead transcription factor FOXK2 has recently been implicated in cancer cell proliferation and survival, but a role in cancer chemotherapeutic drug resistance has hitherto not been explored. Here we demonstrate that FOXK2 has a central role in mediating the cytotoxic drug response in breast cancer. Clonogenic and cell viability assays showed that enhanced FOXK2 expression sensitizes MCF-7 breast cancer cells to paclitaxel or epirubicin treatment, whereas FOXK2 depletion by small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) confers drug resistance. Our data also showed that the activation of the tumour suppressor FOXO3a by paclitaxel and epirubicin is mediated through the induction of FOXK2, as depletion of FOXK2 by siRNA limits the induction of FOXO3a by these drugs in MCF-7 cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) analysis showed that in response to drug treatment, FOXK2 accumulates and binds to the proximal FOXO3a promoter region in MCF-7 cells. Furthermore, we also uncovered that FOXK2 is deregulated and, therefore, can express at high levels in the nucleus of both the paclitaxel and epirubicin drug-resistant MCF-7 cells. Our results showed that ectopically overexpressed FOXK2 accumulates in the nuclei of drug-resistant MCF-7 cells but failed to be recruited to target genes, including FOXO3a. Crucially, we found that FOXO3a is required for the anti-proliferative and epirubicin-induced cytotoxic function of FOXK2 in MCF-7 cells by sulphorhodamine and clonogenic assays. The physiological importance of the regulation of FOXO3a by FOXK2 is further confirmed by the significant correlations between FOXO3a and FOXK2 expression in breast carcinoma patient samples. Further survival analysis also reveals that high nuclear FOXK2 expression significantly associates with poorer clinical outcome, particularly in patients who have received conventional chemotherapy, consistent with our finding that FOXK2 is deregulated in drug-resistant cells. In summary, our results suggest that paclitaxel and epirubicin target the FOXK2 to modulate their cytotoxicity and deregulated FOXK2 confers drug resistance.
Recent advances have highlighted profound roles of FOXO transcription factors, especially FOXO1, in bone development and remodeling. The regulation of bone development by FOXOs seems to be stage-specific or context dependent. FOXOs promote maintenance and differentiation of early progenitors of the osteoblast lineage and repress proliferation of committed osteoblast precursors; FOXO1 is vital for osteocyte survival. Considering the versatile roles played by FOXOs in bone development and tumorigenesis, it is plausible that FOXO1, the main FOXO in bone with a non-redundant role, might have influence on osteosarcoma (OS) oncogenesis. Indeed, recent results have implicated that FOXO1 has a tumor-suppressing role in OS. In the present study, we found that FOXO1 expression was generally low or absent in OS, with a minority of cases having moderate expression. Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) revealed that the FOXO1 locus was frequently involved in copy number variation and loss of heterozygosity in OS, indicating that chromosomal aberrations might be partially responsible for the heterogeneity in FOXO1 expression. FOXO1 activation in OS cell lines inhibited cancer cell survival, which can be attributed to modulation of target genes, including BIM and repressed Wnt/β-catenin signaling. FOXO1 inhibition promoted cell proliferation, enhanced colony formation and attenuated osteogenic differentiation of OS cell lines. To conclude, our results proved FOXO1 as a tumor suppressor in OS at least partially by suppression of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway.
Abnormally stiff substrates have been shown to trigger cancer progression. However, the detailed molecular mechanisms underlying this trigger are not clear. In this study, we cultured T84 human colorectal cancer cells on plastic dishes to create a stiff substrate or on collagen-I gel to create a soft substrate. The stiff substrate enhanced the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-7 (MMP-7), an indicator of poor prognosis. In addition, we used polyacrylamide gels (2, 67 and 126 kPa) so that the MMP-7 expression on the 126-kPa gel was higher compared with that on the 2-kPa gel. Next, we investigated whether yes-associated protein (YAP) affected the MMP-7 expression. YAP knockdown decreased MMP-7 expression. Treatment with inhibitors of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and myosin regulatory light chain (MRLC) and integrin-α2 or integrin-β1 knockdown downregulated MMP-7 expression. Finally, we demonstrated that YAP, EGFR, integrin-α2β1 and MRLC produced a positive feedback loop that enhanced MMP-7 expression. These findings suggest that stiff substrates enhanced colorectal cancer cell viability by upregulating MMP-7 expression through a positive feedback loop.
Diacylglycerol kinases (DGKs) transform diacylglycerol (DAG) into phosphatidic acid (PA), balancing the levels of these key metabolic and signaling lipids. We previously showed that PA derived from the DGKζ isoform promotes mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) activation. This function might be crucial for the growth and survival of cancer cells, especially for those resistant to the allosteric mTOR inhibitor rapamycin. How this positive function of DGKζ coordinates with DAG metabolism and signaling is unknown. In this study, we used a rapamycin-resistant colon cancer cell line as a model to address the role of DGKζ in tumor cells. We found that DGKζ predominated over other PA sources such as DGKα or phospholipase D to activate mTORC1, and that its activity was a component of the rapamycin-induced feedback loops. We show that the DGKζ DAG-consuming function is central to cell homeostasis, as DAG negatively regulates levels of the lipogenic transcription factor SREBP-1. Our findings suggest a model in which simultaneous regulation of DAG and PA levels by DGKζ is integrated with mTOR function to maintain tumor cell homeostasis; we provide new evidence of the crosstalk between mTOR and lipid metabolism that will be advantageous in the design of drug therapies.
Bladder cancer, the fourth most common noncutaneous malignancy in the United States, is characterized by high recurrence rate, with a subset of these cancers progressing to a deadly muscle invasive form of disease. Exosomes are small secreted vesicles that contain proteins, mRNA and miRNA, thus potentially modulating signaling pathways in recipient cells. Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a process by which epithelial cells lose their cell polarity and cell–cell adhesion and gain migratory and invasive properties to become mesenchymal stem cells. EMT has been implicated in the initiation of metastasis for cancer progression. We investigated the ability of bladder cancer-shed exosomes to induce EMT in urothelial cells. Exosomes were isolated by ultracentrifugation from T24 or UMUC3 invasive bladder cancer cell conditioned media or from patient urine or bladder barbotage samples. Exosomes were then added to the urothelial cells and EMT was assessed. Urothelial cells treated with bladder cancer exosomes showed an increased expression in several mesenchymal markers, including α-smooth muscle actin, S100A4 and snail, as compared with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)-treated cells. Moreover, treatment of urothelial cells with bladder cancer exosomes resulted in decreased expression of epithelial markers E-cadherin and β-catenin, as compared with the control, PBS-treated cells. Bladder cancer exosomes also increased the migration and invasion of urothelial cells, and this was blocked by heparin pretreatment. We further showed that exosomes isolated from patient urine and bladder barbotage samples were able to induce the expression of several mesenchymal markers in recipient urothelial cells. In conclusion, the research presented here represents both a new insight into the role of exosomes in transition of bladder cancer into invasive disease, as well as an introduction to a new platform for exosome research in urothelial cells.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer in the world, and second leading cause of cancer deaths in the US. Although, anti-EGFR therapy is commonly prescribed for CRC, patients harboring mutations in KRAS or BRAF show poor treatment response, indicating an ardent demand for new therapeutic targets discovery. SPINK1 (serine peptidase inhibitor, Kazal type 1) overexpression has been identified in many cancers including the colon, lung, breast and prostate. Our study demonstrates the functional significance of SPINK1 in CRC progression and metastases. Stable knockdown of SPINK1 significantly decreases cell proliferation, invasion and soft agar colony formation in the colon adenocarcinoma WiDr cells. Conversely, an increase in these oncogenic phenotypes was observed on stimulation with SPINK1-enriched conditioned media (CM) in multiple benign models such as murine colonic epithelial cell lines, MSIE and YAMC (SPINK3-negative). Mechanistically, SPINK1 promotes tumorigenic phenotype by activating phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K/AKT) and mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) signaling pathways, and the SPINK1-positive WiDr cells are sensitive to AKT and MEK inhibitors. Importantly, SPINK1 silencing mediated upregulation of various Metallothionein isoforms, considered as tumor suppressors in CRC, confer sensitivity to doxorubicin, which strengthens the rationale for using the combinatorial treatment approach for the SPINK1-positive CRC patients. Furthermore, in vivo studies using chicken chorioallantoic membrane assay, murine xenograft studies and metastasis models further suggest a pivotal role of SPINK1 in CRC progression and metastasis. Taken together, our study demonstrates an important role for the overexpressed SPINK1 in CRC disease progression, a phenomenon that needs careful evaluation towards effective therapeutic target development.
Adrenocortical cancer (ACC) is a very aggressive tumor, and genomics studies demonstrate that the most frequent alterations of driver genes in these cancers activate the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. However, the adrenal-specific targets of oncogenic β-catenin-mediating tumorigenesis have not being established. A combined transcriptomic analysis from two series of human tumors and the human ACC cell line H295R harboring a spontaneous β-catenin activating mutation was done to identify the Wnt/β-catenin targets. Seven genes were consistently identified in the three studies. Among these genes, we found that AFF3 mediates the oncogenic effects of β-catenin in ACC. The Wnt response element site located at nucleotide position −1408 of the AFF3 transcriptional start sites (TSS) mediates the regulation by the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. AFF3 silencing decreases cell proliferation and increases apoptosis in the ACC cell line H295R. AFF3 is located in nuclear speckles, which play an important role in RNA splicing. AFF3 overexpression in adrenocortical cells interferes with the organization and/or biogenesis of these nuclear speckles and alters the distribution of CDK9 and cyclin T1 such that they accumulate at the sites of AFF3/speckles. We demonstrate that AFF3 is a new target of Wnt/β-catenin pathway involved in ACC, acting on transcription and RNA splicing.
Cancerogenesis is driven by mutations leading to aberrant functioning of a complex network of molecular interactions and simultaneously affecting multiple cellular functions. Therefore, the successful application of bioinformatics and systems biology methods for analysis of high-throughput data in cancer research heavily depends on availability of global and detailed reconstructions of signalling networks amenable for computational analysis. We present here the Atlas of Cancer Signalling Network (ACSN), an interactive and comprehensive map of molecular mechanisms implicated in cancer. The resource includes tools for map navigation, visualization and analysis of molecular data in the context of signalling network maps. Constructing and updating ACSN involves careful manual curation of molecular biology literature and participation of experts in the corresponding fields. The cancer-oriented content of ACSN is completely original and covers major mechanisms involved in cancer progression, including DNA repair, cell survival, apoptosis, cell cycle, EMT and cell motility. Cell signalling mechanisms are depicted in detail, together creating a seamless ‘geographic-like' map of molecular interactions frequently deregulated in cancer. The map is browsable using NaviCell web interface using the Google Maps engine and semantic zooming principle. The associated web-blog provides a forum for commenting and curating the ACSN content. ACSN allows uploading heterogeneous omics data from users on top of the maps for visualization and performing functional analyses. We suggest several scenarios for ACSN application in cancer research, particularly for visualizing high-throughput data, starting from small interfering RNA-based screening results or mutation frequencies to innovative ways of exploring transcriptomes and phosphoproteomes. Integration and analysis of these data in the context of ACSN may help interpret their biological significance and formulate mechanistic hypotheses. ACSN may also support patient stratification, prediction of treatment response and resistance to cancer drugs, as well as design of novel treatment strategies.
Although the antitumor role of metformin has been widely reported, the molecular mechanism of this biguanide agent in the inhibition of tumor progression remains unclear. Here, we identified miR-708-5p as a novel target of metformin in prostate cancer cells. Metformin promotes increased expression of miR-708-5p, leading to suppression of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane protein neuronatin (NNAT) expression and subsequently induces apoptosis of prostate cancer cells through the ER stress pathway. Further, miR-708-5p-induced knockdown of NNAT is associated with downregulated intracellular calcium levels and induced malformation of ER-ribosome structure revealed by electronic microscopy. Meanwhile, the unfolded protein response regulator CHOP, p-eIF2α, calreticulin, GRP78 and ATP2A1, all of which are also considered as ER stress markers, are upregulated by metformin and miR-708-5p. Taken together, our findings clearly demonstrate that metformin stimulates increased expression of miR-708-5p to target the NNAT-mediated response to ER stress and apoptosis. This novel regulatory mechanism of metformin in prostate cancer cells not only advances our knowledge on the molecular mechanism of metformin but also provides a promising therapeutic strategy by targeting miR-708-5p and NNAT for prostate cancer treatment.
Several studies suggest that Wnt signaling contributes to reprogramming and maintenance of cancer stem cell (CSC) states activated by loss of membranous E-cadherin expression. However, E-cadherin's exact role in Wnt/β-catenin-mediated promotion of the CSC phenotype remains unclear. Recently, a significant positive correlation has been observed between the expression of nuclear (an aberrant nuclear localization) E-cadherin and β-catenin in gastric and colorectal carcinomas. Here we conducted a series of in-vitro and in-vivo studies to show that the β-catenin/TCF4 interaction was abolished by E-cadherin and was correlated with its nuclear localization, and consequently decreased β-catenin/TCF4 transcriptional activity. Nuclear E-cadherin was a negative regulator of Wnt/β-Catenin-elicited promotion of the CSC phenotype. Using immunohistochemistry on lung cancer tissue microarrays, we found that changes in subcellular location of E-cadherin may be described by tumor grade and stage, suggesting cellular redistribution during lung tumorigenesis. Furthermore, nuclear E-cadherin expression was more significantly inversely correlated with CD133 (a lung CSC marker) expression (P<0.005) than total E-cadherin expression (P<0.05), suggesting that lung cancer as defined by nuclear E-cadherinLow/nuclear β-cateninHigh/CD133High biomarkers has superior prognostic value over total E-cadherinLow/nuclear β-cateninHigh/CD133High.
Human DCTPP1 (dCTP pyrophosphatase 1), also known as XTP3-transactivated protein A, belongs to MazG-like nucleoside triphosphate pyrophosphatase (NTP-PPase) superfamily. Being a newly identified pyrophosphatase, its relevance to tumorigenesis and the mechanisms are not well investigated. In the present study, we have confirmed our previous study that DCTPP1 was significantly hyperexpressed in breast cancer and further demonstrated its strong association with tumor progression and poor prognosis in breast cancer. Knockdown of DCTPP1 in breast cancer cell line MCF-7 cells remarkably retarded proliferation and colony formation in vitro. The capacity of mammosphere formation of MCF-7 was suppressed with the silence of DCTPP1, which was consistent with the enhanced mammosphere-forming ability in DCTPP1-overexpressed MDA-MB-231 cells. To further dissect the mechanisms of DCTPP1 in promoting tumor cell growth and stemness maintenance, its biochemical properties and biological functions were investigated. DCTPP1 displayed bioactive form with tetrameric structure similar to other MazG domain-containing pyrophosphatases based on structure simulation. A substrate preference for dCTP and its methylated or halogen-modified derivatives over the other canonical (deoxy-) NTPs was demonstrated from enzymatic assay. This substrate preference was also proved in breast cancer cells that the intracellular 5-methyl-dCTP level increased in DCTPP1-deficient MCF-7 cells but decreased in DCTPP1-overexpressed MDA-MB-231 cells. Moreover, global methylation level was elevated in DCTPP1-knockdown MCF-7 cells or mammosphere-forming MCF-7 cells but decreased significantly in DCTPP1-overexpressed MDA-MB-231 cells and its mammospheres. Our results thus indicated that human DCTPP1 was capable of modulating the concentration of intracellular 5-methyl-dCTP. This in turn affected global methylation, contributing to a known phenomenon of hypomethylation related to the cancer cell growth and stemness maintenance. Our current investigations point to the pathological functions of DCTPP1 overexpression in breast cancer cells with aberrant dCTP metabolism and epigenetic modification.
Tumor cell heterogeneity poses a major hurdle in the treatment of cancer. Mammary cancer stem-like cells (MaCSCs), or tumor-initiating cells, are highly tumorigenic sub-populations that have the potential to self-renew and to differentiate. These cells are clinically important, as they display therapeutic resistance and may contribute to treatment failure and recurrence, but the signaling axes relevant to the tumorigenic phenotype are poorly defined. The zinc-finger transcription factor Kruppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) is a pluripotency mediator that is enriched in MaCSCs. KLF4 promotes RAS-extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway activity and tumor cell survival in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells. In this study, we found that both KLF4 and a downstream effector, microRNA-206 (miR-206), are selectively enriched in the MaCSC fractions of cultured human TNBC cell lines, as well as in the aldehyde dehydrogenase-high MaCSC sub-population of cells derived from xenografted human mammary carcinomas. The suppression of endogenous KLF4 or miR-206 activities abrogated cell survival and in vivo tumor initiation, despite having only subtle effects on MaCSC abundance. Using a combinatorial approach that included in silico as well as loss- and gain-of-function in vitro assays, we identified miR-206-mediated repression of the pro-apoptotic molecules programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) and connexin 43 (CX43/GJA1). Depletion of either of these two miR-206-regulated transcripts promoted resistance to anoikis, a prominent feature of CSCs, but did not consistently alter MaCSC abundance. Consistent with increased levels of miR-206 in MaCSCs, the expression of both PDCD4 and CX43 was suppressed in these cells relative to control cells. These results identify miR-206 as an effector of KLF4-mediated prosurvival signaling in MaCSCs through repression of PDCD4 and CX43. Consequently, our study suggests that a pluripotency factor exerts prosurvival signaling in MaCSCs, and that antagonism of KLF4-miR-206 signaling may selectively target the MaCSC niche in TNBC.
Estrogen receptor-α (ERα)-negative breast cancer is clinically aggressive and does not respond to conventional hormonal therapies. Strategies that lead to re-expression of ERα could sensitize ERα-negative breast cancers to selective ER modulators. FTY720 (fingolimod, Gilenya), a sphingosine analog, is the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved prodrug for treatment of multiple sclerosis that also has anticancer actions that are not yet well understood. We found that FTY720 is phosphorylated in breast cancer cells by nuclear sphingosine kinase 2 and accumulates there. Nuclear FTY720-P is a potent inhibitor of class I histone deacetylases (HDACs) that enhances histone acetylations and regulates expression of a restricted set of genes independently of its known effects on canonical signaling through sphingosine-1-phosphate receptors. High-fat diet (HFD) and obesity, which is now endemic, increase breast cancer risk and have been associated with worse prognosis. HFD accelerated the onset of tumors with more advanced lesions and increased triple-negative spontaneous breast tumors and HDAC activity in MMTV-PyMT transgenic mice. Oral administration of clinically relevant doses of FTY720 suppressed development, progression and aggressiveness of spontaneous breast tumors in these mice, reduced HDAC activity and strikingly reversed HFD-induced loss of estrogen and progesterone receptors in advanced carcinoma. In ERα-negative human and murine breast cancer cells, FTY720 reactivated expression of silenced ERα and sensitized them to tamoxifen. Moreover, treatment with FTY720 also re-expressed ERα and increased therapeutic sensitivity of ERα-negative syngeneic breast tumors to tamoxifen in vivo more potently than a known HDAC inhibitor. Our work suggests that a multipronged attack with FTY720 is a novel combination approach for effective treatment of both conventional hormonal therapy-resistant breast cancer and triple-negative breast cancer.
ADP-ribosylation results from transfer of the ADP-ribose moiety of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) to an acceptor with ADP-ribose-acceptor content determined by the activities of ADP-ribosyltransferases, which modify the acceptor, and ADP-ribose-acceptor hydrolase (ARH), which cleave the ADP-ribose-acceptor bond. ARH1 was discovered as an ADP-ribose(arginine)protein hydrolase. Previously, we showed that ARH1-knockout and ARH1 heterozygous mice spontaneously developed tumors. Further, ARH1-knockout and ARH1 heterozygous mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) produced tumors when injected into nude mice. In tumors arising in ARH1 heterozygous mice and MEFs, we found both loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the ARH1 gene and ARH1 gene mutations. In the present report, we found that these mutant ARH1 genes encode proteins with reduced ARH1 enzymatic activity. Moreover, MEFs transformed with ARH1 mutant genes exhibiting different levels of ARH1 activity showed altered rates of proliferation, anchorage-independent colony growth in soft agar, and tumorigenesis in nude mice. MEFs transformed with the wild-type (WT) gene, but expressing low levels of hydrolase activity were also tumorigenic. However, transformation with the WT gene was less likely to yield tumors than transformation with a mutant gene exhibiting similar hydrolase activity. Thus, control of protein-ADP-ribosylation by ARH1 is critical for tumorigenesis. In the human cancer database, LOH and mutations of the ARH1 gene were observed. Further, ARH1 gene mutations were located in exons 3 and 4, comparable to exons 2 and 3 of the murine ARH1 gene, which comprise the catalytic site. Thus, human ARH1 gene mutations similar to their murine counterparts may be involved in human cancers.
Expression of the Wnt ligand Wnt5a is frequently elevated in melanoma and is thought to be a critical regulator of cell movement during metastasis. However, the mechanisms regulating its expression are unknown. We find that the level of secreted Wnt5a varies by as much as 10-fold between cell lines and correlates more strongly with invasion than total cellular levels. Our results indicate that the RNA helicase Mov10 plays a role in Wnt5a synthesis and secretion. Inhibition of Mov10 increases secreted Wnt5a levels in melanoma cells by increasing Wnt5a synthesis and acylation. This is achieved by increasing fatty acid synthase (FASN) and stearoyl-CoA desaturase expression, leading to elevated levels of palmitoleoyl-CoA, required for Wnt ligand lipid modification and secretion. Melanoma tumors exhibit reduced expression of Mov10 compared with benign nevi and Mov10 levels inversely correlate with FASN levels in primary tumors. These results reveal a previously unappreciated role for aberrant lipid metabolism in regulating Wnt5a signaling that may be a critical step in melanoma progression.
Since the establishment of tumor angiogenesis as a therapeutic target, an excitement in developing the anti-angiogenic agents was resulted in tailoring a humanized monoclonal antibody (Bevacizumab) against vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF): a key factor in recruiting angiogenesis. The past three decades' research in the area of angiogenesis also invented a series of novel and effective anti-angiogenic agents targeting the VEGF signaling axis. Despite the demonstrable clinical benefits of anti-angiogenic therapy, the preclinical and clinical data of the current therapeutic settings clearly indicate the transient efficacy, restoration of tumor progression and aggressive recurrence of tumor invasion after the withdrawal of anti-angiogenic therapy. Therefore, the impact of this therapeutic regime on improving overall survival of patients has been disappointing in clinic. The recent advances in pathophysiology of tumor angiogenesis and related molecular and cellular underpinnings attributed the conspiracy of compensatory angiogenic pathways in conferring evasive and intrinsic tumor resistance to anti-angiogenic agents. The understandings of how these pathways functionally cross-talk for sustaining tumor angiogenesis during VEGF blockade is essential and perhaps may act as a basic prerequisite for designing novel therapeutic strategies to combat the growing arrogance of tumors toward anti-angiogenic agents. The present review offers a discourse on major compensatory angiogenic pathways operating at cellular and molecular levels and their attributes with resistance to anti-angiogenic agents along with strategic opinions on future setting in targeting tumor angiogenesis.
Posttranslational modifications have critical roles in diverse biological processes through interactions. Tumor-suppressor protein p53 and nucleotide excision repair factor XPC each contain an acidic region, termed the acidic transactivation domain (TAD) and acidic fragment (AF), respectively, that binds to the pleckstrin homology (PH) domain of the p62 subunit of the transcription factor TFIIH. Human p53-TAD contains seven serine and two threonine residues, all of which can be phosphorylated. Similarly, XPC-AF contains six serine and two threonine residues, of which Thr117, Ser122 and Ser129 have been reported as phosphorylation sites in vivo, although their phosphorylation roles are unknown. Phosphorylation of Ser46 and Thr55 of p53-TAD increases its binding ability; however, the role of XPC-AF phosphorylation remains elusive. Here we describe a system for real-time and simultaneous monitoring of the phosphorylation and p62-PH affinity of p53-TAD and XPC-AF using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Unexpectedly, among seven reported kinases that presumably phosphorylate Ser46 and/or Thr55 of p53-TAD, only two specific and high-efficiency enzymes were identified: JNK2α2 for Ser46 and GRK5 for Thr55. During interaction with p62-PH, four different affinity complexes resulting from various phosphorylation states of p53-TAD by the kinases were identified. The kinetics of the site-specific phosphorylation reaction of p53-TAD and its affinity for p62-PH were monitored in real-time using the NMR system. Isothermic calorimetry showed that phosphorylation of Ser129 of XPC-AF increases binding to p62-PH. Although CK2 was predicted to phosphorylate Ser122, Ser129 and Ser140 from its sequence context, it specifically and efficiently phosphorylated only Ser129. Simultaneous monitoring of the phosphorylation and augmentation in p62-PH binding identified a key residue of p62-PH for contacting phosphorylated Ser129. In summary, we have established an NMR system for real-time and simultaneous monitoring of site-specific phosphorylation and enhancement of affinity between phosphorylation domains and their target. The system is also applicable to other posttranslational modifications.
Expression of E-cadherin has a central role in maintaining epithelial morphology. In solid tumors, reduction of E-cadherin results in disruption of intercellular contacts. Consequently, cells lose adhesive properties and gain more invasive mesenchymal properties. Nevertheless, the mechanism of E-cadherin regulation is not completely elucidated. Here we analyzed the distribution of E-cadherin expression at the cell level in human hepatocellular carcinoma, in which human liver paraffin blocks from 25 hepatocellular carcinoma patients were prepared from cancerous (CA) and noncancerous areas (NCA). In situ hybridization (ISH) was performed to detect E-cadherin and hypoxia-induced factor-1α (HIF1α) mRNAs and immunohistochemistry to stain E-cadherin protein. In parallel, RNA was extracted from CA and NCA, and E-cadherin and HIF1α were quantified by quantitative reverse transcription PCR. ISH revealed abundant E-cadherin mRNA in nuclei of hepatocellular carcinoma cells (HCCs), whereas immunohistochemistry showed depletion of E-cadherin protein from these areas. In sections of NCA, E-cadherin mRNA was also found in the cytosol, and E-cadherin protein was detected on the membrane of cells. Experiments in cell lines confirmed E-cadherin mRNA in nuclei of cells negative for E-cadherin protein. HIF1α expression is elevated in CAs, which is associated with a clear cytosolic staining for this mRNA. Our results demonstrate that E-caderhin mRNA is selectively retained in nuclei of HCCs, whereas other mRNAs are still exported, suggesting that translocation of E-cadherin mRNA from nuclei to cytoplasm has a role in regulating E-cadherin protein levels during epithelial mesenchymal transition.
The membrane protein caveolin-1 (Cav1) recently emerged as a novel oncogene involved in prostate cancer progression with opposed regulation in epithelial tumor cells and the tumor stroma. Here we examined the role of stromal Cav1 for growth and radiation response of MPR31-4 prostate cancer xenograft tumors using Cav1-deficient C57Bl/6 mice. Syngeneic MPR31-4 tumors grew faster when implanted into Cav1-deficient mice. Increased tumor growth on Cav1-deficient mice was linked to decreased integration of smooth muscle cells into the wall of newly formed blood vessels and thus with a less stabilized vessel phenotype compared with tumors from Cav1 wild-type animals. However, tumor growth delay of MPR31-4 tumors grown on Cav1 knockout mice to a single high-dose irradiation with 20 Gray was more pronounced compared with tumors grown on wild-type mice. Increased radiation-induced tumor growth delay in Cav1-deficient mice was associated with an increased endothelial cell apoptosis. In vitro studies using cultured endothelial cells (ECs) confirmed that the loss of Cav1 expression increases sensitivity of ECs to radiation-induced apoptosis and reduces their clonogenic survival after irradiation. Immunohistochemical analysis of human tissue specimen further revealed that although Cav1 expression is mostly reduced in the tumor stroma of advanced and metastatic prostate cancer, the vascular compartment still expresses high levels of Cav1. In conclusion, the radiation response of MPR31-4 prostate tumors is critically regulated by Cav1 expression in the tumor vasculature. Thus, Cav1 might be a promising therapeutic target for combinatorial therapies to counteract radiation resistance of prostate cancer at the level of the tumor vasculature.
Sgt1/Sugt1, a cochaperone of Hsp90, is involved in several cellular activities including Cullin E3 ubiqutin ligase activity. The high level of Sgt1 expression in colorectal and gastric tumors suggests that Sgt1 is involved in tumorigenesis. Here, we report that Sgt1 is overexpressed in colon, breast and lung tumor tissues and in Ewing sarcoma and rhabdomyosarcoma xenografts. We also found that Sgt1 heterozygous knockout resulted in suppressed Hras-mediated transformation in vitro and tumor formation in p53−/− mouse embryonic fibroblast cells and significantly increased survival of p53−/− mice. Moreover, depletion of Sgt1 inhibited the growth of Ewing sarcoma and rhabdomyosarcoma cells and destabilized EWS-FLI1 and PAX3-FOXO1 oncogenic fusion proteins, respectively, which are required for cellular growth. Our results suggest that Sgt1 contributes to cancer development by stabilizing oncoproteins and that Sgt1 is a potential therapeutic target.
Loco-regional recurrence in 50% of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) patients poses major challenge for oncologists. Lack of biomarkers that can predict disease aggressiveness and recurrence risk makes the scenario more dismal. On the basis of our earlier global proteomic analyses we identified five differentially expressed proteins in OSCC. This study aimed to develop protein biomarkers-based prognostic risk prediction model for OSCC. Sub-cellular expression of five proteins, S100A7, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteinK (hnRNPK), prothymosin α (PTMA), 14-3-3ζ and 14-3-3σ was analyzed by immunohistochemistry in test set (282 Indian OSCCs and 209 normal tissues), correlated with clinic–pathological parameters and clinical outcome over 12 years to develop a risk model for prediction of recurrence-free survival. This risk classifier was externally validated in 135 Canadian OSCC and 96 normal tissues. Biomarker signature score based on PTMA, S100A7 and hnRNPK was associated with recurrence free survival of OSCC patients (hazard ratio=1.11; 95% confidence interval 1.08, 1.13, P<0.001, optimism-corrected c-statistic=0.69) independent of clinical parameters. Biomarker signature score stratified OSCC patients into high- and low-risk groups with significant difference for disease recurrence. The high-risk group had median survival 14 months, and 3-year survival rate of 30%, whereas low-risk group survival probability did not reach 50%, and had 3-year survival rate of 71%. As a powerful predictor of 3-year recurrence-free survival in OSCC patients, the newly developed biomarkers panel risk classifier will facilitate patient counseling for personalized treatment.
RUNX1/ETO (RE), the t(8;21)-derived leukemic transcription factor associated with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) development, deregulates genes involved in differentiation, self-renewal and proliferation. In addition, these cells show differences in cellular adhesion behavior whose molecular basis is not well understood. Here, we demonstrate that RE epigenetically silences the gene encoding P-Selectin Glycoprotein Ligand-1 (PSGL-1) and downregulates PSGL-1 expression in human CD34+ and murine lin− hematopoietic progenitor cells. Levels of PSGL-1 inversely and dose-dependently correlate with RE oncogene levels. However, a DNA-binding defective mutant fails to downregulate PSGL-1. We show by ChIP experiments that the PSGL-1 promoter is a direct target of RE and binding is accompanied by high levels of the repressive chromatin mark histone H3K27me3. In t(8;21)+ Kasumi-1 cells, PSGL-1 expression is completely restored at both the mRNA and cell surface protein levels following RE downregulation with short hairpin RNA (shRNA) or RE inhibition with tetramerization-blocking peptides, and at the promoter H3K27me3 is replaced by the activating chromatin mark H3K9ac as well as by RNA polymerase II. Upregulation of PSGL-1 restores the binding of cells to P- and E-selectin and re-establishes myeloid-specific cellular adhesion while it fails to bind to lymphocyte-specific L-selectin. Overall, our data suggest that the RE oncoprotein epigenetically represses PSGL-1 via binding to its promoter region and thus affects the adhesive behavior of t(8;21)+ AML cells.
Patients with translocation-positive alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma (ARMS), an aggressive childhood tumor primarily characterized by the PAX3-FOXO1 oncogenic fusion protein, have a poor prognosis because of lack of therapies that specifically target ARMS tumors. This fact highlights the need for novel pharmaceutical interventions. Posttranslational modifications such as phosphorylation are becoming attractive biological targets for the development of such interventions. Along these lines, we demonstrated that PAX3-FOXO1 is phosphorylated at three specific sites and that its pattern of phosphorylation is altered relative to wild-type Pax3 throughout early myogenesis and in ARMS tumor cells. However, little work has been performed examining the effect of directly inhibiting phosphorylation at these sites on ARMS development. To address this gap in knowledge, we used small molecule inhibitors or mutational analysis to specifically inhibit phosphorylation of PAX3-FOXO1 to investigate how altering phosphorylation of the oncogenic fusion protein affects ARMS phenotypes. We found that inhibiting the phosphorylation of PAX3-FOXO1 at Ser201 significantly reduced migration, invasion and proliferation in two independent ARMS tumor cell lines. Further, we found that inhibition of phosphorylation at Ser205 also decreased proliferation and anchorage-independent growth. Consistent with these in vitro results, we demonstrate for the first time that PAX3-FOXO1 is phosphorylated at Ser201 and Ser205 in a primary tumor sample and in tumor cells actively invading the surrounding normal tissue. This report is the first to demonstrate that the direct inhibition of PAX3-FOXO1 phosphorylation reduces ARMS tumor phenotypes in vitro and that these phosphorylation events are present in primary human ARMS tumors and invading tumor cells. These results identify phosphorylation of PAX3-FOXO1, especially at Ser201, as a novel biological target that can be explored as a promising avenue for ARMS therapies.
The telomeric protein TRF2, involving in telomeric and extratelomeric DNA damage response, has been previously reported to facilitate multidrug resistance (MDR) in gastric cancer cells by interfering ATM-dependent DNA damage response induced by anticancer drugs. Rap1 is the TRF2-interacting protein in the shelterin complex. Complex formation between Rap1 and TRF2 is essential for their function in telomere and end protection. Here we focus on the effects of Rap1 on TRF2 function in DNA damage response induced by anticancer drugs. Both Rap1 and TRF2 expression were upregulated in SGC7901 and its MDR variant SGC7901/VCR after etoposide treatment, which was more marked in SGC7901/VCR than in SGC7901. Rap1 silencing by siRNA in SGC7901/VCR partially reversed the etoposide resistance. And Rap1 silencing partially reversed the TRF2-mediated resistance to etoposide in SGC7901. Rap1 silencing did not affect the TRF2 upregulation induced by etoposide, but eliminated the inhibition effect of TRF2 on ATM expression and ATM phosphorylation at serine 1981 (ATM pS1981). Furthermore, phosphorylation of ATM targets, including γH2AX and serine 15 (S15) on p53, were increased in Rap1 silencing cells in response to etoposide. Thus, we confirm that Rap1, interacting with TRF2 in the shelterin complex, also has an important role in TRF2-mediated DNA damage response in gastric cancer cells treated by etoposide.
Epithelial–mesenchymal transition (EMT) has a major role in cancer progression and metastasis. However, the specific mechanism of transcriptional repression involved in this process remains largely unknown. Dachshund homologue 1 (DACH1) expression is lost in invasive breast cancer with poor prognosis, and the role of DACH1 in regulating breast cancer metastasis is poorly understood. In this study, significant correlation between the expression of DACH1 and the morphology of breast cancer cells was observed. Subsequent investigation into the relationship between DACH1 and EMT showed that overexpression of DACH1 in ZR-75-30 cells induced a shift towards epithelial morphology and cell–cell adhesion, as well as increased the expression of the epithelial marker E-cadherin and suppressed cell migration and invasion. In contrast, silencing DACH1 in MCF-7 and T47D cells disrupted the epithelial morphology and cell–cell contact, reduced the expression of E-cadherin, and induced cell migration and invasion. DACH1 also specifically interacted with SNAI1, but not SNAI2, to form a complex, which could bind to the E-box on the E-cadherin promoter in an SNAI1-dependent manner. DACH1 inhibited the transcriptional activity of SNAI1, leading to the activation of E-cadherin in breast cancer cells. Furthermore, the level of DACH1 also correlated with the extent of metastasis in a mouse model. DACH1 overexpression significantly decreased the metastasis and growth of 4T1/Luc cells in BALB/c mice. Analysis of tissue samples taken from human breast cancers showed a significant correlation between the expression of DACH1 and E-cadherin in SNAI1-positive breast cancer. Collectively, our data identified a new mechanistic pathway for the regulation of EMT and metastasis of breast cancer cells, one that is based on the regulation of E-cadherin expression by direct DACH1–SNAI1 interaction.
?
Therapies targeting cancer metastasis are challenging owing to the complexity of the metastatic process and the high number of effectors involved. Although tumour hypoxia has previously been associated with increased aggressiveness as well as resistance to radio- and chemotherapy, the understanding of a direct link between the level and duration of hypoxia and the individual steps involved in metastasis is still missing. Using live imaging in a chick embryo model, we have demonstrated that the exposure of neuroblastoma cells to 1% oxygen for 3 days was capable of (1) enabling cell migration towards blood vessels, (2) slowing down their velocity within blood vessels to facilitate extravasation and (3) promoting cell proliferation in primary and secondary sites. We have shown that cells do not have to be hypoxic anymore to exhibit these acquired capabilities as a long-term memory of prior hypoxic exposure is kept. Furthermore, non-hypoxic cells can be influenced by neighbouring hypoxic preconditioned cells and be entrained in the metastatic progression. The acquired aggressive phenotype relies on hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-dependent transcription of a number of genes involved in metastasis and can be impaired by HIF inhibition. Altogether, our results demonstrate the need to consider both temporal and spatial tumour heterogeneity because cells can 'remember' an earlier environment and share their acquired phenotype with their close neighbours. As a consequence, it is necessary to monitor the correct hypoxic markers to be able to predict the consequences of the cells' history on their behaviour and their potential response to therapies.
We have previously described novel histone acetyltransferase (HAT) inhibitors that block neuroblastoma cell growth in vitro. Here we show that two selected pyridoisothiazolone HAT inhibitors, PU139 and PU141, induce cellular histone hypoacetylation and inhibit growth of several neoplastic cell lines originating from different tissues. Broader in vitro selectivity profiling shows that PU139 blocks the HATs Gcn5, p300/CBP-associated factor (PCAF), CREB (cAMP response element-binding) protein (CBP) and p300, whereas PU141 is selective toward CBP and p300. The pan-inhibitor PU139 triggers caspase-independent cell death in cell culture. Both inhibitors block growth of SK-N-SH neuroblastoma xenografts in mice and the PU139 was shown to synergize with doxorubicin in vivo. The latter also reduces histone lysine acetylation in vivo at concentrations that block neoplastic xenograft growth. This is one of the very few reports on hypoacetylating agents with in vivo anticancer activity.
We have previously shown that the tumor necrosis factor family member a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL) enhances intestinal tumor growth in various preclinical tumor models. Here, we have investigated whether APRIL serum levels at time of surgery predict survival in a large cohort of colorectal cancer (CRC) patients. We measured circulating APRIL levels in a cohort of CRC patients (n=432) using a novel validated monoclonal APRIL antibody (hAPRIL.133) in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) setup. APRIL levels were correlated with clinicopathological features and outcome. Overall survival was examined with Kaplan–Meier survival analysis, and Cox proportional hazards ratios were calculated. We observed that circulating APRIL levels were normally distributed among CRC patients. High APRIL expression correlated significantly with poor outcome measures, such as higher stage at presentation and development of lymphatic and distant metastases. Within the group of rectal cancer patients, higher circulating APRIL levels at time of surgery were correlated with poor survival (log-rank analysis P-value 0.008). Univariate Cox regression analysis for overall survival in rectal cancer patients showed that patients with elevated circulating APRIL levels had an increased risk of poor outcome (hazard ratio (HR) 1.79; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.16–2.76; P-value 0.009). Multivariate analysis in rectal cancer patients showed that APRIL as a prognostic factor was dependent on stage of disease (HR 1.25; 95% CI 0.79–1.99; P-value 0.340), which was related to the fact that stage IV rectal cancer patients had significantly higher levels of APRIL. Our results revealed that APRIL serum levels at time of surgery were associated with features of advanced disease and prognosis in rectal cancer patients, which strengthens the previously reported preclinical observation of increased APRIL levels correlating with disease progression.
The expression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR/ERBB1/HER1) is implicated in the progress of numerous cancers, a feature that has been exploited in the development of EGFR antibodies and EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors as anti-cancer drugs. However, EGFR also has important normal cellular functions, leading to serious side effects when EGFR is inhibited. One damaging characteristic of many oncogenes is the ability to be expressed in the hypoxic conditions associated with the tumour interior. It has previously been demonstrated that expression of EGFR is maintained in hypoxic conditions via an unknown mechanism of translational control, despite global translation rates generally being attenuated under hypoxic conditions. In this report, we demonstrate that the human EGFR 5′ untranslated region (UTR) sequence can initiate the expression of a downstream open reading frame via an internal ribosome entry site (IRES). We show that this effect is not due to either cryptic promoter activity or splicing events. We have investigated the requirement of the EGFR IRES for eukaryotic initiation factor 4A (eIF4A), which is an RNA helicase responsible for processing RNA secondary structure as part of translation initiation. Treatment with hippuristanol (a potent inhibitor of eIF4A) caused a decrease in EGFR 5′ UTR-driven reporter activity and also a reduction in EGFR protein level. Importantly, we show that expression of a reporter gene under the control of the EGFR IRES is maintained under hypoxic conditions despite a fall in global translation rates.
