A synthetic mammalian network to compute population borders based on engineered reciprocal cell-cell communication.
Scope and limitations of yeast as a model organism for studying human tissue-specific pathways.
JigCell Run Manager (JC-RM): a tool for managing large sets of biochemical model parametrizations.
PROXIMAL: a method for Prediction of Xenobiotic Metabolism.
FlexFlux: combining metabolic flux and regulatory network analyses.
A simple method for identifying parameter correlations in partially observed linear dynamic models.
Identification of network-based biomarkers of cardioembolic stroke using a systems biology approach with time series data.
Disentangling the multigenic and pleiotropic nature of molecular function.
A model for gene deregulation detection using expression data.
Constructing a molecular interaction network for thyroid cancer via large-scale text mining of gene and pathway events.
Functional redundancy of transcription factors explains why most binding targets of a transcription factor are not affected when the transcription factor is knocked out.
YAGM: a web tool for mining associated genes in yeast based on diverse biological associations.
A cell size- and cell cycle-aware stochastic model for predicting time-dynamic gene network activity in individual cells.
Cellular automaton-based model for radiation-induced bystander effects.
Tracing regulatory routes in metabolism using generalised supply-demand analysis.
The relationship between stochastic and deterministic quasi-steady state approximations.
Resource constrained flux balance analysis predicts selective pressure on the global structure of metabolic networks.
A global sensitivity analysis approach for morphogenesis models.
Tip cell overtaking occurs as a side effect of sprouting in computational models of angiogenesis.
Pathobiochemical signatures of cholestatic liver disease in bile duct ligated mice.
Reconstruction of gene networks using prior knowledge.
Differential variability and correlation of gene expression identifies key genes involved in neuronal differentiation.
Analyzing Th17 cell differentiation dynamics using a novel integrative modeling framework for time-course RNA sequencing data.
Integrating transcriptional and protein interaction networks to prioritize condition-specific master regulators.
In silico evaluation and exploration of antibiotic tuberculosis treatment regimens.
Mining for novel candidate clock genes in the circadian regulatory network.
Deciphering the signaling mechanisms of the plant cell wall degradation machinery in Aspergillus oryzae.
Bayesian modeling suggests that IL-12 (p40), IL-13 and MCP-1 drive murine cytokine networks in vivo.
A multi-omic analysis of human naïve CD4+ T cells.
Flux-sum analysis identifies metabolite targets for strain improvement.
Robust and efficient parameter estimation in dynamic models of biological systems.
Optimization of lipid production with a genome-scale model of Yarrowia lipolytica.
Systems analysis of non-parenchymal cell modulation of liver repair across multiple regeneration modes.
Conditional robustness analysis for fragility discovery and target identification in biochemical networks and in cancer systems biology.
Mathematical analysis of the regulation of competing methyltransferases.
SBMLsqueezer 2: context-sensitive creation of kinetic equations in biochemical networks.
Solution of the chemical master equation by radial basis functions approximation with interface tracking.
Towards in vivo estimation of reaction kinetics using high-throughput metabolomics data: a maximum likelihood approach.
Clustering reveals limits of parameter identifiability in multi-parameter models of biochemical dynamics.
Impact of kinetic isotope effects in isotopic studies of metabolic systems.
Analysis of a spatial gene expression database for sea anemone Nematostella vectensis during early development.
Incorporating prior knowledge improves detection of differences in bacterial growth rate.
Inference of spatiotemporal effects on cellular state transitions from time-lapse microscopy.
Integrating genetics and epigenetics in breast cancer: biological insights, experimental, computational methods and therapeutic potential.
Exploring causal networks underlying fat deposition and muscularity in pigs through the integration of phenotypic, genotypic and transcriptomic data.
Systematic synergy modeling: understanding drug synergy from a systems biology perspective.
Metabolic modeling predicts metabolite changes in Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Bacterial social interactions drive the emergence of differential spatial colony structures.
Inferring microbial interaction network from microbiome data using RMN algorithm.
Dysregulation of the vascular endothelial growth factor and semaphorin ligand-receptor families in prostate cancer metastasis.
Nonlinear mixed-effects modelling for single cell estimation: when, why, and how to use it.
A correction method for systematic error in 1H-NMR time-course data validated through stochastic cell culture simulation.
The wright stuff: reimagining path analysis reveals novel components of the sex determination hierarchy in drosophila melanogaster.
Kidney segmentation in CT sequences using SKFCM and improved GrowCut algorithm.
Evaluating a common semi-mechanistic mathematical model of gene-regulatory networks.
Connectivity mapping using a combined gene signature from multiple colorectal cancer datasets identified candidate drugs including existing chemotherapies.
An empirical study of ensemble-based semi-supervised learning approaches for imbalanced splice site datasets.
Structural neighboring property for identifying protein-protein binding sites.
Erratum to: ppiPre: predicting protein-protein interactions by combining heterogeneous features.
A tree-like Bayesian structure learning algorithm for small-sample datasets from complex biological model systems.
An algorithm for the reduction of genome-scale metabolic network models to meaningful core models.
Computational modeling of sphingolipid metabolism.
DeDaL: Cytoscape 3 app for producing and morphing data-driven and structure-driven network layouts.
The organization of domains in proteins obeys Menzerath-Altmann’s law of language.
Stochastic simulation of Boolean rxncon models: towards quantitative analysis of large signaling networks.
Genome-scale metabolic model of Rhodococcus jostii RHA1 (iMT1174) to study the accumulation of storage compounds during nitrogen-limited condition.
Complex regulation of Hsf1-Skn7 activities by the catalytic subunits of PKA in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: experimental and computational evidences.
Regulation of ERK-MAPK signaling in human epidermis.
The gastrin and cholecystokinin receptors mediated signaling network: a scaffold for data analysis and new hypotheses on regulatory mechanisms.
Logical-continuous modelling of post-translationally regulated bistability of curli fiber expression in Escherichia coli.
Estimating cell diffusivity and cell proliferation rate by interpreting IncuCyte ZOOM™ assay data using the Fisher-Kolmogorov model.
Identification of putative drug targets for human sperm-egg interaction defect using protein network approach.
Systems biology surveillance decrypts pathological transcriptome remodeling.
Finding directionality and gene-disease predictions in disease associations.
SEEK: a systems biology data and model management platform.
CytoASP: a Cytoscape app for qualitative consistency reasoning, prediction and repair in biological networks.
Validation and selection of ODE based systems biology models: how to arrive at more reliable decisions.
Genome-scale resources for Thermoanaerobacterium saccharolyticum.
Domain-specific model selection for structural identification of the Rab5-Rab7 dynamics in endocytosis.
Distinguishing the rates of gene activation from phenotypic variations.
From ERα66 to ERα36: a generic method for validating a prognosis marker of breast tumor progression.
A weighted and integrated drug-target interactome: drug repurposing for schizophrenia as a use case.
Predicting and exploring network components involved in pathogenesis in the malaria parasite via novel subnetwork alignments.
CD8 + T cell response to adenovirusvaccination and subsequent suppression of tumor growth: modeling, simulation and analysis.
Dynamics of the discovery process of protein-protein interactions from low content studies.
Gene network analysis shows immune-signaling and ERK1/2 as novel genetic markers for multiple addiction phenotypes: alcohol, smoking and opioid addiction.
Uncovering distinct protein-network topologies in heterogeneous cell populations.
Increased robustness of early embryogenesis through collective decision-making by key transcription factors.
DT-Web: a web-based application for drug-target interaction and drug combination prediction through domain-tuned network-based inference.
A knowledge base for Vitis vinifera functional analysis.
Modelling the effects of cell-to-cell variability on the output of interconnected gene networks in bacterial populations.
Single-molecule modeling of mRNA degradation by miRNA: Lessons from data.
Modelling non-Markovian dynamics in biochemical reactions.
A renewal model for the emergence of anomalous solute crowding in liposomes.
A versatile mathematical work-flow to explore how Cancer Stem Cell fate influences tumor progression.
The hierarchical organization of natural protein interaction networks confers self-organization properties on pseudocells.
Finding the positive feedback loops underlying multi-stationarity.
Urothelial cancer gene regulatory networks inferred from large-scale RNAseq, Bead and Oligo gene expression data.
Reshaping the epigenetic landscape during early flower development: induction of attractor transitions by relative differences in gene decay rates.
Iron acquisition and oxidative stress response in aspergillus fumigatus.
Molecular association of pathogenetic contributors to pre-eclampsia (pre-eclampsia associome).
ANDSystem: an Associative Network Discovery System for automated literature mining in the field of biology.
Bicluster Sampled Coherence Metric (BSCM) provides an accurate environmental context for phenotype predictions.
KPP: KEGG Pathway Painter.
Predicting internal cell fluxes at sub-optimal growth.
Robust network structure of the Sln1-Ypd1-Ssk1 three-component phospho-relay prevents unintended activation of the HOG MAPK pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Effects of promoter leakage on dynamics of gene expression.
Spatially-resolved metabolic cooperativity within dense bacterial colonies.
Genomic data assimilation using a higher moment filtering technique for restoration of gene regulatory networks.
Identification of AMP-activated protein kinase targets by a consensus sequence search of the proteome.
Evolutionary tradeoffs, Pareto optimality and the morphology of ammonite shells.
Time-dependent variation of pathways and networks in a 24-hour window after cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury.
A computational model of PKD and CERT interactions at the trans-Golgi network of mammalian cells.
Mimoza: web-based semantic zooming and navigation in metabolic networks.
BioPreDyn-bench: a suite of benchmark problems for dynamic modelling in systems biology.
Annual acknowledgement of reviewers.
Fluxome study of Pseudomonas fluorescens reveals major reorganisation of carbon flux through central metabolic pathways in response to inactivation of the anti-sigma factor MucA.
Discovery of substrate cycles in large scale metabolic networks using hierarchical modularity.
microRNAs’ differential regulations mediate the progress of Human Papillomavirus (HPV)-induced Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia (CIN).
Identifying DNA-binding proteins by combining support vector machine and PSSM distance transformation.
Positive regulation of Rho GTPase activity by RhoGDIs as a result of their direct interaction with GAPs.
Protein functional properties prediction in sparsely-label PPI networks through regularized non-negative matrix factorization.
Investigating the utility of clinical outcome-guided mutual information network in network-based Cox regression.
Accurate multiple network alignment through context-sensitive random walk.
Protein-protein docking on hardware accelerators: comparison of GPU and MIC architectures.
Transcription factor and microRNA-regulated network motifs for cancer and signal transduction networks.
Computational cell fate modelling for discovery of rewiring in apoptotic network for enhanced cancer drug sensitivity.
Integrating multiple networks for protein function prediction.
Predicting target-ligand interactions using protein ligand-binding site and ligand substructures.
cisPath: an R/Bioconductor package for cloud users for visualization and management of functional protein interaction networks.
Prediction of signaling cross-talks contributing to acquired drug resistance in breast cancer cells by Bayesian statistical modeling.
Reconstruction and analysis of a genome-scale metabolic model of the oleaginous fungus Mortierella alpina.
