Comparative genomics and biological characterization of sequential Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates from persistent airways infection.
What’s in your next-generation sequence data? An exploration of unmapped DNA and RNA sequence reads from the bovine reference individual.
Selection processes in simple sequence repeats suggest a correlation with their genomic location: insights from a fungal model system.
Transcriptomes of newly-isolated Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense reveal hundreds of mRNAs that are co-regulated with stumpy-form markers.
Transcriptional profiling of the leaves of near-isogenic rice lines with contrasting drought tolerance at the reproductive stage in response to water deficit.
Effect of roughage on rumen microbiota composition in the efficient feed converter and sturdy Indian Jaffrabadi buffalo (Bubalus bubalis).
Whole mitochondrial genomes unveil the impact of domestication on goat matrilineal variability.
Genome-wide discovery and validation of Eucalyptus small RNAs reveals variable patterns of conservation and diversity across species of Myrtaceae.
Using host-pathogen protein interactions to identify and characterize Francisella tularensis virulence factors.
Transcriptome profiling of a Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. trifolii rosR mutant reveals the role of the transcriptional regulator RosR in motility, synthesis of cell-surface components, and other cellular processes.
A new strategy for enhancing imputation quality of rare variants from next-generation sequencing data via combining SNP and exome chip data.
Simultaneous transcriptional profiling of Leishmania major and its murine macrophage host cell reveals insights into host-pathogen interactions.
Comparative genomics of Fructobacillus spp. and Leuconostoc spp. reveals niche-specific evolution of Fructobacillus spp.
Structure, evolution and functional inference on the Mildew Locus O (MLO) gene family in three cultivated Cucurbitaceae spp.
Genome-wide analysis of WRKY transcription factors in white pear (Pyrus bretschneideri) reveals evolution and patterns under drought stress.
A high-density genetic map for anchoring genome sequences and identifying QTLs associated with dwarf vine in pumpkin (Cucurbita maxima Duch.).
Exploring the genomic traits of fungus-feeding bacterial genus Collimonas.
MycoBASE: expanding the functional annotation coverage of mycobacterial genomes.
Transcriptomes of post-mitotic neurons identify the usage of alternative pathways during adult and embryonic neuronal differentiation.
Chronic binge alcohol administration dysregulates global regulatory gene networks associated with skeletal muscle wasting in simian immunodeficiency virus-infected macaques.
Global expression differences and tissue specific expression differences in rice evolution result in two contrasting types of differentially expressed genes.
Comparative genomics of 43 strains of Xanthomonas citri pv. citri reveals the evolutionary events giving rise to pathotypes with different host ranges.
Combining RNA-seq and proteomic profiling to identify seminal fluid proteins in the migratory grasshopper Melanoplus sanguinipes (F).
Comparative genome analysis of Weissella ceti, an emerging pathogen of farm-raised rainbow trout.
Phylogenetic analysis of human Chlamydia pneumoniae strains reveals a distinct Australian indigenous clade that predates European exploration of the continent.
Transcriptome profiling of soybean (Glycine max) roots challenged with pathogenic and non-pathogenic isolates of Fusarium oxysporum.
Lifespan of restriction-modification systems critically affects avoidance of their recognition sites in host genomes.
Alignment behaviors of short peptides provide a roadmap for functional profiling of metagenomic data.
An ultra-high-density map as a community resource for discerning the genetic basis of quantitative traits in maize.
Genome-wide transcriptome profiling reveals functional networks involving the Plasmodium falciparum drug resistance transporters PfCRT and PfMDR1.
Genomic analysis of Luteimonas abyssi XH031T: insights into its adaption to the subseafloor environment of South Pacific Gyre and ecological role in biogeochemical cycle.
Whole genome sequence and manual annotation of Clostridium autoethanogenum, an industrially relevant bacterium.
Dintor: functional annotation of genomic and proteomic data.
Similar striatal gene expression profiles in the striatum of the YAC128 and HdhQ150 mouse models of Huntington’s disease are not reflected in mutant Huntingtin inclusion prevalence.
Genome editing through large insertion leads to the skipping of targeted exon.
De novo transcriptome sequencing and analysis of Coccinella septempunctata L. in non-diapause, diapause and diapause-terminated states to identify diapause-associated genes.
cChIP-seq: a robust small-scale method for investigation of histone modifications.
Genome-wide analysis, molecular cloning and expression profiling reveal tissue-specifically expressed, feedback-regulated, stress-responsive and alternatively spliced novel genes involved in gibberellin metabolism in Salvia miltiorrhiza.
Deep sequencing transcriptional fingerprinting of rice kernels for dissecting grain quality traits.
Genetic differences among ethnic groups.
SMRT sequencing of the Campylobacter coli BfR-CA-9557 genome sequence reveals unique methylation motifs.
Reconstruction of temporal activity of microRNAs from gene expression data in breast cancer cell line.
Bacterial small RNAs in the Genus Rickettsia.
The transcriptional profile of coronary arteritis in Kawasaki disease.
Transcriptomic analysis reveals specific osmoregulatory adaptive responses in gill mitochondria-rich cells and pavement cells of the Japanese eel.
Genome-wide transcriptome analyses of developing seeds from low and normal phytic acid soybean lines.
Liver transcriptomic networks reveal main biological processes associated with feed efficiency in beef cattle.
Non-random fragmentation patterns in circulating cell-free DNA reflect epigenetic regulation.
Prediction of tissue-specific effects of gene knockout on apoptosis in different anatomical structures of human brain.
Obesity-related known and candidate SNP markers can significantly change affinity of TATA-binding protein for human gene promoters.
Analysis of functional importance of binding sites in the Drosophila gap gene network model.
A comparison of the transcriptome of Drosophila melanogaster in response to entomopathogenic fungus, ionizing radiation, starvation and cold shock.
Computer analysis of protein functional sites projection on exon structure of genes in Metazoa.
Comparison of American mink embryonic stem and induced pluripotent stem cell transcriptomes.
The evolution of Homo sapiens denisova and Homo sapiens neanderthalensis miRNA targeting genes in the prenatal and postnatal brain.
Genetic variation and association mapping for 12 agronomic traits in indica rice.
Search for genes responsible for the remarkably high acetic acid tolerance of a Zygosaccharomyces bailii-derived interspecies hybrid strain.
Comprehensive evaluation of AmpliSeq transcriptome, a novel targeted whole transcriptome RNA sequencing methodology for global gene expression analysis.
Protein aggregation, structural disorder and RNA-binding ability: a new approach for physico-chemical and gene ontology classification of multiple datasets.
Daily transcriptome changes reveal the role of nitrogen in controlling microcystin synthesis and nutrient transport in the toxic cyanobacterium, Microcystis aeruginosa.
Mapping the CgrA regulon of Rhodospirillum centenum reveals a hierarchal network controlling Gram-negative cyst development.
Leveraging global gene expression patterns to predict expression of unmeasured genes.
IRES-dependent translated genes in fungi: computational prediction, phylogenetic conservation and functional association.
Genomic and transcriptomic analyses of the Chinese Maotai-flavored liquor yeast MT1 revealed its unique multi-carbon co-utilization.
ChromContact: A web tool for analyzing spatial contact of chromosomes from Hi-C data.
Mariner transposons are sailing in the genome of the blood-sucking bug Rhodnius prolixus.
Transcriptome and proteome dynamics in larvae of the barnacle Balanus Amphitrite from the Red Sea.
De novo transcriptome sequence and identification of major bast-related genes involved in cellulose biosynthesis in jute (Corchorus capsularis L.).
Mining candidate genes associated with powdery mildew resistance in cucumber via super-BSA by specific length amplified fragment (SLAF) sequencing.
Exploring transcriptomic diversity in muscle revealed that cellular signaling pathways mainly differentiate five Western porcine breeds.
Combined de novo and genome guided assembly and annotation of the Pinus patula juvenile shoot transcriptome.
Improved taxonomic assignment of human intestinal 16S rRNA sequences by a dedicated reference database.
Differential expression of small RNAs under chemical stress and fed-batch fermentation in E. coli.
VariantSpark: population scale clustering of genotype information.
Genome-wide identification and expression profiling of serine proteases and homologs in the diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella (L.).
Genome-wide analysis of the basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factor gene family in six legume genomes.
Erratum to: ‘Integrated analysis of the local and systemic changes preceding the development of post-partum cytological endometritis’.
Automatic DNA Diagnosis for 1D Gel Electrophoresis Images using Bio-image Processing Technique.
Inference of gene interaction networks using conserved subsequential patterns from multiple time course gene expression datasets.
A theoretical investigation of DNA dynamics and desolvation kinetics for zinc finger proteinZif268.
A novel analysis strategy for integrating methylation and expression data reveals core pathways for thyroid cancer aetiology.
An integrated bioinformatics analysis to dissect kinase dependency in triple negative breast cancer.
A new peak detection algorithm for MALDI mass spectrometry data based on a modified Asymmetric Pseudo-Voigt model.
SCMMTP: identifying and characterizing membrane transport proteins using propensity scores of dipeptides.
Properly defining the targets of a transcription factor significantly improves the computational identification of cooperative transcription factor pairs in yeast.
GIW and InCoB, two premier bioinformatics conferences in Asia with a combined 40 years of history.
ARG-walker: inference of individual specific strengths of meiotic recombination hotspots by population genomics analysis.
An integrative approach for efficient analysis of whole genome bisulfite sequencing data.
Precise genotyping and recombination detection of Enterovirus.
Detection of differentially methylated regions from bisulfite-seq data by hidden Markov models incorporating genome-wide methylation level distributions.
Investigation of microRNAs in mouse macrophage responses to lipopolysaccharide-stimulation by combining gene expression with microRNA-target information.
Subset selection of high-depth next generation sequencing reads for de novo genome assembly using MapReduce framework.
MethGo: a comprehensive tool for analyzing whole-genome bisulfite sequencing data.
Incorporation of subject-level covariates in quantile normalization of miRNA data.
Construction of relatedness matrices using genotyping-by-sequencing data.
Population genomics of pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum (L.) R. Br.): Comparative analysis of global accessions and Senegalese landraces.
Genome-wide association study reveals novel loci for litter size and its variability in a Large White pig population.
High-throughput transcriptomics reveals common and strain-specific responses of human macrophages to infection with Mycobacterium abscessus Smooth and Rough variants.
Deep sequencing of Danish Holstein dairy cattle for variant detection and insight into potential loss-of-function variants in protein coding genes.
Transcriptional cellular responses in midgut tissue of Aedes aegypti larvae following intoxication with Cry11Aa toxin from Bacillus thuringiensis.
iRDA: a new filter towards predictive, stable, and enriched candidate genes.
Genome-wide analysis of MAPKKKs shows expansion and evolution of a new MEKK class involved in solanaceous species sexual reproduction.
High-density genetic map construction and gene mapping of pericarp color in wax gourd using specific-locus amplified fragment (SLAF) sequencing.
Transcriptome profiling and validation of gene based single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in sorghum genotypes with contrasting responses to cold stress.
De novo assembly of the dual transcriptomes of a polymorphic raptor species and its malarial parasite.
Single-molecule real-time transcript sequencing facilitates common wheat genome annotation and grain transcriptome research.
A human 3′UTR clone collection to study post-transcriptional gene regulation.
Rapid Increase in frequency of gene copy-number variants during experimental evolution in Caenorhabditis elegans.
A method for positive forensic identification of samples from extremely low-coverage sequence data.
De novo transcriptome reconstruction and annotation of the Egyptian rousette bat.
Comparative genomics of Pseudomonas fluorescens subclade III strains from human lungs.
Removal of redundant contigs from de novo RNA-Seq assemblies via homology search improves accurate detection of differentially expressed genes.
An integrative analysis of small molecule transcriptional responses in the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum.
Metabolic characteristics of dominant microbes and key rare species from an acidic hot spring in Taiwan revealed by metagenomics.
Candidate chemosensory genes identified in Colaphellus bowringi by antennal transcriptome analysis.
Fusion transcript loci share many genomic features with non-fusion loci.
Identification of Nicotiana benthamiana microRNAs and their targets using high throughput sequencing and degradome analysis.
Comparative miRNAs analysis of Two contrasting broccoli inbred lines with divergent head-forming capacity under temperature stress.
Fast dimension reduction and integrative clustering of multi-omics data using low-rank approximation: application to cancer molecular classification.
The pan-genome of Lactobacillus reuteri strains originating from the pig gastrointestinal tract.
On the relevance of technical variation due to building pools in microarray experiments.
Accuracy of genomic selection for alfalfa biomass yield in different reference populations.
mRNA-seq reveals skeletal muscle atrophy in response to handling stress in a marine teleost, the red cusk-eel (Genypterus chilensis).
Erratum to: The UBC-40 Urothelial Bladder Cancer Cell Line Index: a genomic resource for functional studies.
Erratum to: ‘The direction of cross affects obesity after puberty in male but not female offspring’.
Construction of a high-density mutant library in soybean and development of a mutant retrieval method using amplicon sequencing.
Identification and analysis of divergent immune gene families within the Tasmanian devil genome.
Multimodular type I polyketide synthases in algae evolve by module duplications and displacement of AT domains in trans.
Transcriptome profiling reveals that feeding wild zooplankton to larval Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) influences suites of genes involved in oxidation-reduction, mitosis, and selenium homeostasis.
Genome-wide expression profiles of Pyropia haitanensis in response to osmotic stress by using deep sequencing technology.
Collaborative cross mice in a genetic association study reveal new candidate genes for bone microarchitecture.
Evidence of recent interspecies horizontal gene transfer regarding nucleopolyhedrovirus infection of Spodoptera frugiperda.
Promoter-based identification of novel non-coding RNAs reveals the presence of dicistronic snoRNA-miRNA genes in Arabidopsis thaliana.
A Bayesian model for detection of high-order interactions among genetic variants in genome-wide association studies.
Regulatory network reconstruction reveals genes with prognostic value for chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Development and validation of a mixed-tissue oligonucleotide DNA microarray for Atlantic bluefin tuna, Thunnus thynnus (Linnaeus, 1758).
Comprehensive characterization of a time-course transcriptional response induced by autotoxins in Panax ginseng using RNA-Seq.
Gonadal transcriptomic analysis and differentially expressed genes in the testis and ovary of the Pacific white shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei).
Replicate exome-sequencing in a multiple-generation family: improved interpretation of next-generation sequencing data.
Impact of SNPs on methylation readouts by Illumina Infinium HumanMethylation450 BeadChip Array: implications for comparative population studies.
Genome-wide identification of rubber tree (Hevea brasiliensis Muell. Arg.) aquaporin genes and their response to ethephon stimulation in the laticifer, a rubber-producing tissue.
Whole genome annotation and comparative genomic analyses of bio-control fungus Purpureocillium lilacinum.
MicroRNA target prediction using thermodynamic and sequence curves.
Analysis of nucleosome positioning landscapes enables gene discovery in the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum.
Wellington-bootstrap: differential DNase-seq footprinting identifies cell-type determining transcription factors.
Genome-wide analysis of Fusarium graminearum field populations reveals hotspots of recombination.
De novo assembly and functional annotation of Myrciaria dubia fruit transcriptome reveals multiple metabolic pathways for L-ascorbic acid biosynthesis.
Comparative genomics and metabolic profiling of the genus Lysobacter.
Extensive variation between tissues in allele specific expression in an outbred mammal.
Genetic associations and shared environmental effects on the skin microbiome of Korean twins.
RNA sequencing of transcriptomes in human brain regions: protein-coding and non-coding RNAs, isoforms and alleles.
Identification, characterization and expression analysis of lineage-specific genes within sweet orange (Citrus sinensis).
Deciphering the molecular adaptation of the king scallop (Pecten maximus) to heat stress using transcriptomics and proteomics.
Extracting phylogenetic signal and accounting for bias in whole-genome data sets supports the Ctenophora as sister to remaining Metazoa.
Transcriptomics of diapause in an isogenic self-fertilizing vertebrate.
Pre-announcement of symbiotic guests: transcriptional reprogramming by mycorrhizal lipochitooligosaccharides shows a strict co-dependency on the GRAS transcription factors NSP1 and RAM1.
Comparative transcriptome analysis of lufenuron-resistant and susceptible strains of Spodoptera frugiperda (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae).
Gene expression profiling in non-human primate jejunum, ileum and colon after total-body irradiation: a comparative study of segment-specific molecular and cellular responses.
The effect of heterogeneous Transcription Start Sites (TSS) on the translatome: implications for the mammalian cellular phenotype.
Transcriptomic profiling of host-parasite interactions in the microsporidian Trachipleistophora hominis.
Quantitative analysis of chromatin interaction changes upon a 4.3 Mb deletion at mouse 4E2.
Patterns of gene expression and DNA methylation in human fetal and adult liver.
Associations between nucleosome phasing, sequence asymmetry, and tissue-specific expression in a set of inbred Medaka species.
Transcriptomic characterization of the dorsal lobes after hepatectomy of the ventral lobe in zebrafish.
Fast evolutionary rates associated with functional loss in class I glucose transporters of Schistosoma mansoni.
Genomics and transcriptomics of Xanthomonas campestris species challenge the concept of core type III effectome.
Complete depletion of primordial germ cells in an All-female fish leads to Sex-biased gene expression alteration and sterile All-male occurrence.
Transcriptome profiling of a spirodiclofen susceptible and resistant strain of the European red mite Panonychus ulmi using strand-specific RNA-seq.
Identification and annotation of conserved promoters and macrophage-expressed genes in the pig genome.
A genomic approach to understand interactions between Streptococcus pneumoniae and its bacteriophages.
Optimizing and benchmarking de novo transcriptome sequencing: from library preparation to assembly evaluation.
Genome wide association and genomic prediction for growth traits in juvenile farmed Atlantic salmon using a high density SNP array.
Gene expression analysis at the onset of sex differentiation in turbot (Scophthalmus maximus).
Genome-wide identification and evolutionary analyses of bZIP transcription factors in wheat and its relatives and expression profiles of anther development related TabZIP genes.
Genome analysis of Daldinia eschscholtzii strains UM 1400 and UM 1020, wood-decaying fungi isolated from human hosts.
Genes related to mitochondrial functions are differentially expressed in phosphine-resistant and -susceptible Tribolium castaneum.
Investigating inter-chromosomal regulatory relationships through a comprehensive meta-analysis of matched copy number and transcriptomics data sets.
Genomic prediction and genome-wide association study for dagginess and host internal parasite resistance in New Zealand sheep.
GenomicInteractions: An R/Bioconductor package for manipulating and investigating chromatin interaction data.
Sequencing-based high throughput mutation detection in bread wheat.
Time course of the response to ACTH in pig: biological and transcriptomic study.
RNA-seq reveals differentially expressed genes of rice (Oryza sativa) spikelet in response to temperature interacting with nitrogen at meiosis stage.
Co-occurrence of resistance genes to antibiotics, biocides and metals reveals novel insights into their co-selection potential.
Identification of TTAGGG-binding proteins in Neurospora crassa, a fungus with vertebrate-like telomere repeats.
Genomic insights into the evolution of hybrid isoprenoid biosynthetic gene clusters in the MAR4 marine streptomycete clade.
The alignment of enzymatic steps reveals similar metabolic pathways and probable recruitment events in Gammaproteobacteria.
The transcriptional landscape of insect galls: psyllid (Hemiptera) gall formation in Hawaiian Metrosideros polymorpha (Myrtaceae).
Deep sequencing of small RNA facilitates tissue and sex associated microRNA discovery in zebrafish.
Differential expression profiling of the early response to Ustilaginoidea virens between false smut resistant and susceptible rice varieties.
Major differential gene regulation in Coxiella burnetii between in vivo and in vitro cultivation models.
Dormant non-culturable Mycobacterium tuberculosis retains stable low-abundant mRNA.
High-throughput mRNA and miRNA profiling of epithelial-mesenchymal transition in MDCK cells.
Root iTRAQ protein profile analysis of two Citrus species differing in aluminum-tolerance in response to long-term aluminum-toxicity.
Identification of alternative splicing events by RNA sequencing in early growth tomato fruits.
Gene expression and functional annotation of human choroid plexus epithelium failure in Alzheimer’s disease.
Genome-wide analysis and expression profiling of the PIN auxin transporter gene family in soybean (Glycine max).
Mapping of genetic loci that modulate differential colonization by Escherichia coli O157:H7 TUV86-2 in advanced recombinant inbred BXD mice.
A comprehensive joint analysis of the long and short RNA transcriptomes of human erythrocytes.
Five omic technologies are concordant in differentiating the biochemical characteristics of the berries of five grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.) cultivars.
Identification and characterization of microRNAs from in vitro-grown pear shoots infected with Apple stem grooving virus in response to high temperature using small RNA sequencing.
The comprehensive immunomodulation of NeurimmiRs in haemocytes of oyster Crassostrea gigas after acetylcholine and norepinephrine stimulation.
Transcriptome profiling reveals distinctive traits of retinol metabolism and neonatal parallels in the MRL/MpJ mouse.
Deep sequencing of the uterine immune response to bacteria during the equine oestrous cycle.
Transcription analysis of neonicotinoid resistance in Mediterranean (MED) populations of B. tabaci reveal novel cytochrome P450s, but no nAChR mutations associated with the phenotype.
EWS and FUS bind a subset of transcribed genes encoding proteins enriched in RNA regulatory functions.
High transcript abundance, RNA editing, and small RNAs in intergenic regions within the massive mitochondrial genome of the angiosperm Silene noctiflora.
Combined metabolome and transcriptome profiling provides new insights into diterpene biosynthesis in S. pomifera glandular trichomes.
Genomic mutational analysis of the impact of the classical strain improvement program on β–lactam producing Penicillium chrysogenum.
Molecular characterization and functional analysis of barley semi-dwarf mutant Riso no. 9265.
Multifunctional polyketide synthase genes identified by genomic survey of the symbiotic dinoflagellate, Symbiodinium minutum.
Integrated genomics approach to identify biologically relevant alterations in fewer samples.
Identification of the meiotic toolkit in diatoms and exploration of meiosis-specific SPO11 and RAD51 homologs in the sexual species Pseudo-nitzschia multistriata and Seminavis robusta.
Transcriptome-wide functional characterization reveals novel relationships among differentially expressed transcripts in developing soybean embryos.
Functional analysis and transcriptional output of the Göttingen minipig genome.
Molecular tools for studying the major malaria vector Anopheles funestus: improving the utility of the genome using a comparative poly(A) and Ribo-Zero RNAseq analysis.
Biofilm-associated proteins: news from Acinetobacter.
WIDDE: a Web-Interfaced next generation database for genetic diversity exploration, with a first application in cattle.
Combined ultra-low input mRNA and whole-genome sequencing of human embryonic stem cells.
Genomic dissection and prediction of heading date in perennial ryegrass.
Evaluation of the linkage-disequilibrium method for the estimation of effective population size when generations overlap: an empirical case.
Tissue-specific transcriptomics and proteomics of a filarial nematode and its Wolbachia endosymbiont.
Genome-wide mapping of Hif-1α binding sites in zebrafish.
Integrative phenotyping framework (iPF): integrative clustering of multiple omics data identifies novel lung disease subphenotypes.
Evaluation of data discretization methods to derive platform independent isoform expression signatures for multi-class tumor subtyping.
A method for developing regulatory gene set networks to characterize complex biological systems.
Heuristic pairwise alignment of de Bruijn graphs to facilitate simultaneous transcript discovery in related organisms from RNA-Seq data.
Reference-free inference of tumor phylogenies from single-cell sequencing data.
Investigating bisulfite short-read mapping failure with hairpin bisulfite sequencing data.
Microbial "social networks".
An adaptive classification model for peptide identification.
Evolution of the EKA family of powdery mildew avirulence-effector genes from the ORF 1 of a LINE retrotransposon.
Evolutionary fate and implications of retrocopies in the African coelacanth genome.
Integrative enrichment analysis: a new computational method to detect dysregulated pathways in heterogeneous samples.
σ54-dependent regulome in Desulfovibrio vulgaris Hildenborough.
Combining powers of linkage and association mapping for precise dissection of QTL controlling resistance to gray leaf spot disease in maize (Zea mays L.).
Transcriptome profiling of differentially expressed genes in floral buds and flowers of male sterile and fertile lines in watermelon.
The WRKY transcription factor family and senescence in switchgrass.
Variant mapping and mutation discovery in inbred mice using next-generation sequencing.
Sex differences in DNA methylation assessed by 450 K BeadChip in newborns.
Crowdsourced direct-to-consumer genomic analysis of a family quartet.
Comparison of Kompetitive Allele Specific PCR (KASP) and genotyping by sequencing (GBS) for quality control analysis in maize.
The direction of cross obesity after puberty in male but not female offspring.
Genome-wide miR-155 and miR-802 target gene identification in the hippocampus of Ts65Dn Down syndrome mouse model by miRNA sponges.
Transcriptome-wide analysis supports environmental adaptations of two Pinus pinaster populations from contrasting habitats.
High-density P300 enhancers control cell state transitions.
Expression of microRNAs and isomiRs in the porcine endometrium: implications for gene regulation at the maternal-conceptus interface.
Network analysis of microRNA and mRNA seasonal dynamics in a highly plastic sensorimotor neural circuit.
Comprehensive transcriptional landscape of aging mouse liver.
Complete haplotype phasing of the MHC and KIR loci with targeted HaploSeq.
Genome-wide identification and characterization of auxin response factor (ARF) family genes related to flower and fruit development in papaya (Carica papaya L.).
Construction of a high-density genetic map and mapping of a sex-linked locus for the brown alga Undaria pinnatifida (Phaeophyceae) based on large scale marker development by specific length amplified fragment (SLAF) sequencing.
The cold responsive mechanism of the paper mulberry: decreased photosynthesis capacity and increased starch accumulation.
Comparative genome analysis identifies two large deletions in the genome of highly-passaged attenuated Streptococcus agalactiae strain YM001 compared to the parental pathogenic strain HN016.
Analysis of the FnrL regulon in Rhodobacter capsulatus reveals limited regulon overlap with orthologues from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Escherichia coli.
Transcriptome, microRNA, and degradome analyses of the gene expression of Paulownia with phytoplamsa.
Genetic diversity in the plasticity zone and the presence of the chlamydial plasmid differentiates Chlamydia pecorum strains from pigs, sheep, cattle, and koalas.
Genomic population structure and prevalence of copy number variations in South African Nguni cattle.
Whole exome sequencing (WES) on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor tissue in gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST).
A bioinformatic survey of RNA-binding proteins in Plasmodium.
Comparison of Xenorhabdus bovienii bacterial strain genomes reveals diversity in symbiotic functions.
Determining multiallelic complex copy number and sequence variation from high coverage exome sequencing data.
Deep sequencing shows microRNA involvement in bovine mammary gland adaptation to diets supplemented with linseed oil or safflower oil.
The epigenetic processes of meiosis in male mice are broadly affected by the widely used herbicide atrazine.
Variation detection based on next-generation sequencing of type Chinese 1 strains of Toxoplasma gondii with different virulence from China.
MicroRNA and mRNA expression profiling analysis revealed the regulation of plant height in Gossypium hirsutum.
Genotypic and phenotypic analyses of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa chronic bronchiectasis isolate reveal differences from cystic fibrosis and laboratory strains.
Functionally conserved enhancers with divergent sequences in distant vertebrates.
The Leishmania metaphylome: a comprehensive survey of Leishmania protein phylogenetic relationships.
Insights from the genome of Ophiocordyceps polyrhachis-furcata to pathogenicity and host specificity in insect fungi.
Changes in correlation between promoter methylation and gene expression in cancer.
Blood transcriptomics of drug-naïve sporadic Parkinson’s disease patients.
Identification of miRNAs with potential roles in regulation of anther development and male-sterility in 7B-1 male-sterile tomato mutant.
First complete mitochondrial genome of the South American annual fish Austrolebias charrua (Cyprinodontiformes: Rivulidae): peculiar features among cyprinodontiforms mitogenomes.
VariantMetaCaller: automated fusion of variant calling pipelines for quantitative, precision-based filtering.
Prospecting major genes in dairy buffaloes.
De novo transcriptome sequencing in Bixa orellana to identify genes involved in methylerythritol phosphate, carotenoid and bixin biosynthesis.
Integration of Ixodes ricinus genome sequencing with transcriptome and proteome annotation of the naïve midgut.
Deciphering the association between gene function and spatial gene-gene interactions in 3D human genome conformation.
Prior infection with Type A Francisella tularensis antagonizes the pulmonary transcriptional response to an aerosolized Toll-like receptor 4 agonist.
Comparative transcriptomic analysis of immune responses of the migratory locust, Locusta migratoria, to challenge by the fungal insect pathogen, Metarhizium acridum.
Opening the “black box” of nodD3, nodD4 and nodD5 genes of Rhizobium tropici strain CIAT 899.
A newly discovered Bordetella species carries a transcriptionally active CRISPR-Cas with a small Cas9 endonuclease.
Mapping 3′ transcript ends in the bank vole (Clethrionomys glareolus) mitochondrial genome with RNA-Seq.
Polymorphisms in early neurodevelopmental genes affect natural variation in alcohol sensitivity in adult drosophila.
Transcriptome profile analysis of cell proliferation molecular processes during multicellular trichome formation induced by tomato Wov gene in tobacco.
Fatty acid kinase A is an important determinant of biofilm formation in Staphylococcus aureus USA300.
Genome-wide analysis of chemically induced mutations in mouse in phenotype-driven screens.
The Perchlorate Reduction Genomic Island: Mechanisms and Pathways of Evolution by Horizontal Gene Transfer.
Relationship between gene expression and lung function in Idiopathic Interstitial Pneumonias.
Genetic import and phenotype specific alleles associated with hyper-invasion in Campylobacter jejuni.
Genome-wide association analysis reveals loci associated with resistance against Piscirickettsia salmonis in two Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) chromosomes.
Whole transcriptome analysis of Penicillium digitatum strains treatmented with prochloraz reveals their drug-resistant mechanisms.
Novel Moraxella catarrhalis prophages display hyperconserved non-structural genes despite their genomic diversity.
Impact of library preparation protocols and template quantity on the metagenomic reconstruction of a mock microbial community.
Transcriptome analysis of Brassica napus pod using RNA-Seq and identification of lipid-related candidate genes.
Dichlorvos exposure results in large scale disruption of energy metabolism in the liver of the zebrafish, Danio rerio.
Whole genome sequencing reveals genomic heterogeneity and antibiotic purification in Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates.
Molt-dependent transcriptomic analysis of cement proteins in the barnacle Amphibalanus amphitrite.
Novel method to detect microRNAs using chip-based QuantStudio 3D digital PCR.
De novo assembly and sex-specific transcriptome profiling in the sand fly Phlebotomus perniciosus (Diptera, Phlebotominae), a major Old World vector of Leishmania infantum.
The rumen microbial metagenome associated with high methane production in cattle.
A genetic framework for H2O2 induced cell death in Arabidopsis thaliana.
Molecular and phylogenetic characterization of the homoeologous EPSP Synthase genes of allohexaploid wheat, Triticum aestivum (L.).
Genome-wide variation in the pinewood nematode Bursaphelenchus xylophilus and its relationship with pathogenic traits.
Genome-wide identification of copy number variations between two chicken lines that differ in genetic resistance to Marek’s disease.
In silico hybridization enables transcriptomic illumination of the nature and evolution of Myxozoa.
DECKO: Single-oligo, dual-CRISPR deletion of genomic elements including long non-coding RNAs.
Identification of sensory hair-cell transcripts by thiouracil-tagging in zebrafish.
Targeted association mapping demonstrating the complex molecular genetics of fatty acid formation in soybean.
Characterization and fine mapping of a novel barley Stage Green-Revertible Albino Gene (HvSGRA) by Bulked Segregant Analysis based on SSR assay and Specific Length Amplified Fragment Sequencing.
Genome-wide DNA methylome variation in two genetically distinct chicken lines using MethylC-seq.
The distribution and impact of common copy-number variation in the genome of the domesticated apple, Malus x domestica Borkh.
Fine mapping of a large-effect QTL conferring Fusarium crown rot resistance on the long arm of chromosome 3B in hexaploid wheat.
Identification of novel and conserved microRNAs in Panax notoginseng roots by high-throughput sequencing.
Genome-wide survey of two-component signal transduction systems in the plant growth-promoting bacterium Azospirillum.
Copy number variations in the genome of the Qatari population.
A novel approach identifies the first transcriptome networks in bats: a new genetic model for vocal communication.
Mitochondrial genomes and comparative analyses of Culex camposi, Culex coronator, Culex usquatus and Culex usquatissimus (Diptera:Culicidae), members of the coronator group.
Pangenome analysis of Bifidobacterium longum and site-directed mutagenesis through by-pass of restriction-modification systems.
Transcriptional response to sulfide in the Echiuran Worm Urechis unicinctus by digital gene expression analysis.
Phylogenetic patterns of gene rearrangements in four mitochondrial genomes from the green algal family Hydrodictyaceae (Sphaeropleales, Chlorophyceae).
The transcriptome of Candida albicans mitochondria and the evolution of organellar transcription units in yeasts.
Comparison among three variant callers and assessment of the accuracy of imputation from SNP array data to whole-genome sequence level in chicken.
Plasmodium parasites mount an arrest response to dihydroartemisinin, as revealed by whole transcriptome shotgun sequencing (RNA-seq) and microarray study.
New global analysis of the microRNA transcriptome of primary tumors and lymph node metastases of papillary thyroid cancer.
Comparative RNA seq analysis of the New Zealand glowworm Arachnocampa luminosa reveals bioluminescence-related genes.
Cyclosporin A induced toxicity in mouse liver slices is only slightly aggravated by Fxr-deficiency and co-occurs with upregulation of pro-inflammatory genes and downregulation of genes involved in mitochondrial functions.
Genome-wide identification and characterization of the superoxide dismutase gene family in Musa acuminata cv. Tianbaojiao (AAA group).
BubbleGUM: automatic extraction of phenotype molecular signatures and comprehensive visualization of multiple Gene Set Enrichment Analyses.
Integrated metabolic modelling reveals cell-type specific epigenetic control points of the macrophage metabolic network.
Defining the nitrogen regulated transcriptome of Mycobacterium smegmatis using continuous culture.
Integrated analysis of the local and systemic changes preceding the development of post-partum cytological endometritis.
Comparative analysis of microRNA expression in mouse and human brown adipose tissue.
Characterizing Benzo[a]pyrene-induced lacZ mutation spectrum in transgenic mice using next-generation sequencing.
Global identification and analysis of long non-coding RNAs in diploid strawberry Fragaria vesca during flower and fruit development.
Weevil endosymbiont dynamics is associated with a clamping of immunity.
Fine mapping of QTL and genomic prediction using allele-specific expression SNPs demonstrates that the complex trait of genetic resistance to Marek’s disease is predominantly determined by transcriptional regulation.
De novo transcriptome analysis of Medicago falcata reveals novel insights about the mechanisms underlying abiotic stress-responsive pathway.
Transmission of the PabI family of restriction DNA glycosylase genes: mobility and long-term inheritance.
A comprehensive mapping of the structure and gene organisation in the sheep MHC class I region.
Additive transcriptomic variation associated with reproductive traits suggest local adaptation in a recently settled population of the Pacific oyster, Crassostrea gigas.
Investigation of regions impacting inbreeding depression and their association with the additive genetic effect for United States and Australia Jersey dairy cattle.
Asymmetric somatic hybridization induces point mutations and indels in wheat.
Development of genome-wide InDel markers and their integration with SSR, DArT and SNP markers in single barley map.
Radiation hybrid maps of the D-genome of Aegilops tauschii and their application in sequence assembly of large and complex plant genomes.
Large-scale identification of wheat genes resistant to cereal cyst nematode Heterodera avenae using comparative transcriptomic analysis.
Reconstruction and analysis of the genome-scale metabolic model of schizochytrium limacinum SR21 for docosahexaenoic acid production.
Bacterial transcriptome reorganization in thermal adaptive evolution.
Transcriptome sequencing, annotation and polymorphism detection in the hop bush, Dodonaea viscosa.
MicroRNA expression profiles of bovine milk exosomes in response to Staphylococcus aureus infection.
Insights into transcriptional changes that accompany organelle sequestration from the stolen nucleus of Mesodinium rubrum.
Genome-wide analysis of LTR-retrotransposons in oil palm.
Genome-wide identification and functional analysis of lincRNAs acting as miRNA targets or decoys in maize.
Identification of ISMyo2, a novel insertion sequence element of IS21 family and its diagnostic potential for detection of Mycobacterium yongonense.
Identification, characterisation and expression analysis of natural killer receptor genes in Chlamydia pecorum infected koalas (Phascolarctos cinereus).
Mixed model approach for IBD-based QTL mapping in a complex oil palm pedigree.
Age and prior blood feeding of Anopheles gambiae influences their susceptibility and gene expression patterns to ivermectin-containing blood meals.
Identifying specific proteins involved in eggshell membrane formation using gene expression analysis and bioinformatics.
Genome-wide analysis reveals the extent of EAV-HP integration in domestic chicken.
Complexity of a small non-protein coding sequence in chromosomal region 22q11.2: presence of specialized DNA secondary structures and RNA exon/intron motifs.
Population genomics reveals additive and replacing horizontal gene transfers in the emerging pathogen Dickeya solani.
Development of a SNP-based assay for measuring genetic diversity in the Tasmanian devil insurance population.
Gene expression underlying enhanced, steroid-dependent auditory sensitivity of hair cell epithelium in a vocal fish.
Evolution and divergence of SBP-box genes in land plants.
Dynamic association rules for gene expression data analysis.
Comprehensive analysis of the endoplasmic reticulum stress response in the soybean genome: conserved and plant-specific features.
Gene expression profiling during adventitious root formation in carnation stem cuttings.
Virtual pathway explorer (viPEr) and pathway enrichment analysis tool (PEANuT): creating and analyzing focus networks to identify cross-talk between molecules and pathways.
Gene duplications are extensive and contribute significantly to the toxic proteome of nematocysts isolated from Acropora digitifera (Cnidaria: Anthozoa: Scleractinia).
Association mapping by pooled sequencing identifies TOLL 11 as a protective factor against Plasmodium falciparum in Anopheles gambiae.
Genome-wide analysis of myxobacterial two-component systems: genome relatedness and evolutionary changes.
Encyclopedia of bacterial gene circuits whose presence or absence correlate with pathogenicity – a large-scale system analysis of decoded bacterial genomes.
Genome-wide transcription start site profiling in biofilm-grown Burkholderia cenocepacia J2315.
Identification of miRNAs involved in fruit ripening in Cavendish bananas by deep sequencing.
The genomic landscape of ribosomal peptides containing thiazole and oxazole heterocycles.
Mining microsatellite markers from public expressed sequence tags databases for the study of threatened plants.
Transcriptome profiling of wheat glumes in wild emmer, hulled landraces and modern cultivars.
Comparative genome analysis of the candidate functional starter culture strains Lactobacillus fermentum 222 and Lactobacillus plantarum 80 for controlled cocoa bean fermentation processes.
Integrated ordination of miRNA and mRNA expression profiles.
A functional genomics screen identifies an Importin-α homolog as a regulator of stem cell function and tissue patterning during planarian regeneration.
Genomic insight into Aquimarina longa SW024T: its ultra-oligotrophic adapting mechanisms and biogeochemical functions.
Rapid evolutionary divergence of Gossypium barbadense and G. hirsutum mitochondrial genomes.
Genome-wide systematic characterization of the bZIP transcriptional factor family in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.).
Jitterbug: somatic and germline transposon insertion detection at single-nucleotide resolution.
A nonsense mutation in B3GALNT2 is concordant with hydrocephalus in Friesian horses.
A transcriptome approach towards understanding the development of ripening capacity in ‘Bartlett’ pears (Pyrus communis L.).
Adherence and invasive properties of Corynebacterium diphtheriae strains correlates with the predicted membrane-associated and secreted proteome.
Transcriptome profile of liver at different physiological stages reveals potential mode for lipid metabolism in laying hens.
Runs of homozygosity reveal signatures of positive selection for reproduction traits in breed and non-breed horses.
The genome of Dasychira pudibunda nucleopolyhedrovirus (DapuNPV) reveals novel genetic connection between baculoviruses infecting moths of the Lymantriidae family.
The impact of PPARα activation on whole genome gene expression in human precision cut liver slices.
Capsular profiling of the Cronobacter genus and the association of specific Cronobacter sakazakii and C. malonaticus capsule types with neonatal meningitis and necrotizing enterocolitis.
Analysis of three genomes within the thermophilic bacterial species Caldanaerobacter subterraneus with a focus on carbon monoxide dehydrogenase evolution and hydrolase diversity.
Gene loss, adaptive evolution and the co-evolution of plumage coloration genes with opsins in birds.
Combined clinical and genomic signatures for the prognosis of early stage non-small cell lung cancer based on gene copy number alterations.
Development of ListeriaBase and comparative analysis of Listeria monocytogenes.
De novo transcriptome sequencing and comprehensive analysis of the drought-responsive genes in the desert plant Cynanchum komarovii.
Transcriptomic analyses of regenerating adult feathers in chicken.
Evolutionary divergence of core and post-translational circadian clock genes in the pitcher-plant mosquito, Wyeomyia smithii.
A dense SNP genetic map constructed using restriction site-associated DNA sequencing enables detection of QTLs controlling apple fruit quality.
Genome-wide association study dissects genetic architecture underlying longitudinal egg weights in chickens.
Substantial genome synteny preservation among woody angiosperm species: comparative genomics of Chinese chestnut (Castanea mollissima) and plant reference genomes.
Pathogen-regulated genes in wheat isogenic lines differing in resistance to brown rust Puccinia triticina.
Functional development of the adult ovine mammary gland—insights from gene expression profiling.
Identifying binary protein-protein interactions from affinity purification mass spectrometry data.
Genomic dissection of the 1994 Cronobacter sakazakii outbreak in a French neonatal intensive care unit.
Genome analyses of the sunflower pathogen Plasmopara halstedii provide insights into effector evolution in downy mildews and Phytophthora.
Adult porcine genome-wide DNA methylation patterns support pigs as a biomedical model.
Genome-wide identification of long noncoding RNA genes and their potential association with fecundity and virulence in rice brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens.
MicroRNAs in the oriental fruit fly, Bactrocera dorsalis: extending Drosophilid miRNA conservation to the Tephritidae.
Generation of a de novo transcriptome from equine lamellar tissue.
Efficient algorithms for reconciling gene trees and species networks via duplication and loss events.
Phylogenomic species tree estimation in the presence of incomplete lineage sorting and horizontal gene transfer.
Reconstruction of composite regulator-target splicing networks from high-throughput transcriptome data.
Reconstruction of an ancestral Yersinia pestis genome and comparison with an ancient sequence.
Ancestral gene synteny reconstruction improves extant species scaffolding.
Syntenic block overlap multiplicities with a panel of reference genomes provide a signature of ancient polyploidization events.
A comparative study of SVDquartets and other coalescent-based species tree estimation methods.
A maximum pseudo-likelihood approach for phylogenetic networks.
A comparative genomics study on the effect of individual amino acids on ribosome stalling.
Widespread signatures of local mRNA folding structure selection in four Dengue virus serotypes.
ASTRID: Accurate Species TRees from Internode Distances.
Gene-pseudogene evolution: a probabilistic approach.
Transcriptome sequencing and analysis of major genes involved in calcium signaling pathways in pear plants (Pyrus calleryana Decne.).
Diverse regulatory factors associate with flowering time and yield responses in winter-type Brassica napus.
The idiopathic preterm delivery methylation profile in umbilical cord blood DNA.
Escherichia coli O157:H7 strains harbor at least three distinct sequence types of Shiga toxin 2a-converting phages.
Next generation sequencing profiling identifies miR-574-3p and miR-660-5p as potential novel prognostic markers for breast cancer.
Tools and pipelines for BioNano data: molecule assembly pipeline and FASTA super scaffolding tool.
Integrative genomics analysis of genes with biallelic loss and its relation to the expression of mRNA and micro-RNA in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
Chromosomal structures and repetitive sequences divergence in Cucumis species revealed by comparative cytogenetic mapping.
Glutamine rapidly induces the expression of key transcription factor genes involved in nitrogen and stress responses in rice roots.
The genomes of three stocks comprising the most widely utilized live sporozoite Theileria parva vaccine exhibit very different degrees and patterns of sequence divergence.
Transfer RNA detection by small RNA deep sequencing and disease association with myelodysplastic syndromes.
Transcriptome-enabled marker discovery and mapping of plastochron-related genes in Petunia spp.
RNA-Seq in Mytilus galloprovincialis: comparative transcriptomics and expression profiles among different tissues.
Erratum to: Genome sequencing of the Trichoderma reesei QM9136 mutant identifies a truncation of the transcriptional regulator XYR1 as the cause for its cellulase-negative phenotype.
An improved genome reference for the African cichlid, Metriaclima zebra.
De novo sequencing and assembly analysis of transcriptome in the Sodom apple (Calotropis gigantea).
TSS seq based core promoter architecture in blood feeding Tsetse fly (Glossina morsitans morsitans) vector of Trypanosomiasis.
Small RNAs from the wheat stripe rust fungus (Puccinia striiformis f.sp. tritici).
Genome analysis and in vivo virulence of porcine extraintestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli strain PCN033.
Genome-wide cataloging and analysis of alternatively spliced genes in cereal crops.
Early transcriptional events linked to induction of diapause revealed by RNAseq in larvae of drosophilid fly, Chymomyza costata.
Depletion of yeast PDK1 orthologs triggers a stress-like transcriptional response.
Bimodal dynamics of primary metabolism-related responses in tolerant potato-Potato virus Y interaction.
Multi-platform assessment of transcriptional profiling technologies utilizing a precise probe mapping methodology.
Identification of novel small ncRNAs in pollen of tomato.
Comparative genomic analysis of Leishmania (Viannia) peruviana and Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis.
Analysis of the agrotis segetum pheromone gland transcriptome in the light of Sex pheromone biosynthesis.
Origin and evolution of the enhancer of split complex.
Helveticoside is a biologically active component of the seed extract of Descurainia sophia and induces reciprocal gene regulation in A549 human lung cancer cells.
Sheep (Ovis aries) T cell receptor alpha (TRA) and delta (TRD) genes and genomic organization of the TRA/TRD locus.
Synteny analysis in Rosids with a walnut physical map reveals slow genome evolution in long-lived woody perennials.
Using mixtures of biological samples as process controls for RNA-sequencing experiments.
Exploration of alternative splicing events in ten different grapevine cultivars.
Characterization of early transcriptional responses to cadmium in the root and leaf of Cd-resistant Salix matsudana Koidz.
cis-regulatory analysis of the Drosophila pdm locus reveals a diversity of neural enhancers.
De novo mutations in ARID1B associated with both syndromic and non-syndromic short stature.
A survey of tandem repeat instabilities and associated gene expression changes in 35 colorectal cancers.
Identification of candidate gonadal sex differentiation genes in the chicken embryo using RNA-seq.
Somatic mosaicism for copy-neutral loss of heterozygosity and DNA copy number variations in the human genome.
Weight-reduction through a low-fat diet causes differential expression of circulating microRNAs in obese C57BL/6 mice.
Putative synaptic genes defined from a Drosophila whole body developmental transcriptome by a machine learning approach.
Transcriptome analysis of complex I-deficient patients reveals distinct expression programs for subunits and assembly factors of the oxidative phosphorylation system.
Erratum to: Investigating the mobilome in clinically important lineages of Enterococcus faecium and Enterococcus faecalis.
Comparative genomics between human and animal associated subspecies of the Mycobacterium avium complex: a basis for pathogenicity.
Avian pathogenic Escherichia coli (APEC) infection alters bone marrow transcriptome in chickens.
Identification and expression profiles of sRNAs and their biogenesis and action-related genes in male and female cones of Pinus tabuliformis.
Comprehensive transcriptome analysis of Crocus sativus for discovery and expression of genes involved in apocarotenoid biosynthesis.
Identification of four functionally important microRNA families with contrasting differential expression profiles between drought-tolerant and susceptible rice leaf at vegetative stage.
Genome-wide expression profiling of microRNAs in poplar upon infection with the foliar rust fungus Melampsora larici-populina.
Comparative genomic analyses of freshly isolated Giardia intestinalis assemblage A isolates.
Next generation genome sequencing reveals phylogenetic clades with different level of virulence among Salmonella Typhimurium clinical human isolates in Hong Kong.
Venom-gland transcriptome and venom proteome of the Malaysian king cobra (Ophiophagus hannah).
Draft genome of a commonly misdiagnosed multidrug resistant pathogen Candida auris.
Whole transcriptomic analysis of the plant-beneficial rhizobacterium Bacillus amyloliquefaciens SQR9 during enhanced biofilm formation regulated by maize root exudates.
A comparative analysis of the response of the hepatic transcriptome to dietary docosahexaenoic acid in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) post-smolts.
The primary reasons behind data sharing, its wider benefits and how to cope with the realities of commercial data.
Transcriptomic responses to prion disease in rats.
Genomic profiling of fungal cell wall-interfering compounds: identification of a common gene signature.
Genome-wide target analysis of NEUROD2 provides new insights into regulation of cortical projection neuron migration and differentiation.
Genome-wide insights into population structure and genetic history of tunisian local cattle using the illumina bovinesnp50 beadchip.
Lasting effects of early exposure to temperature on the gonadal transcriptome at the time of sex differentiation in the European sea bass, a fish with mixed genetic and environmental sex determination.
Transcriptome analysis of the white pine blister rust pathogen Cronartium ribicola: de novo assembly, expression profiling, and identification of candidate effectors.
Genome-wide characterization of long intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) provides new insight into viral diseases in honey bees Apis cerana and Apis mellifera.
The isolation and characterization of two Stenotrophomonas maltophilia bacteriophages capable of cross-taxonomic order infectivity.
Characterizing 5-hydroxymethylcytosine in human prefrontal cortex at single base resolution.
Malat1 as an evolutionarily conserved lncRNA, plays a positive role in regulating proliferation and maintaining undifferentiated status of early-stage hematopoietic cells.
Comparison of stranded and non-stranded RNA-seq transcriptome profiling and investigation of gene overlap.
Genomic consequences of selection and genome-wide association mapping in soybean.
Rapid construction of genome map for large yellow croaker (Larimichthys crocea) by the whole-genome mapping in BioNano Genomics Irys system.
Large scale RNAi screen in Tribolium reveals novel target genes for pest control and the proteasome as prime target.
Whole genome sequences are required to fully resolve the linkage disequilibrium structure of human populations.
Cross-tissue and cross-species analysis of gene expression in skeletal muscle and electric organ of African weakly-electric fish (Teleostei; Mormyridae).
Genome mining for natural product biosynthetic gene clusters in the Subsection V cyanobacteria.
Using genome-wide associations to identify metabolic pathways involved in maize aflatoxin accumulation resistance.
Polyglutamine toxicity in yeast induces metabolic alterations and mitochondrial defects.
T-REx: Transcriptome analysis webserver for RNA-seq Expression data.
ISMapper: identifying transposase insertion sites in bacterial genomes from short read sequence data.
Transcriptional analysis of phloem-associated cells of potato.
The mitochondrial genome of the chimpanzee louse, Pediculus schaeffi: insights into the process of mitochondrial genome fragmentation in the blood-sucking lice of great apes.
Application of whole genome re-sequencing data in the development of diagnostic DNA markers tightly linked to a disease-resistance locus for marker-assisted selection in lupin (Lupinus angustifolius).
Large scale transcriptome analysis reveals interplay between development of forest trees and a beneficial mycorrhiza helper bacterium.
Gonadal transcriptomics elucidate patterns of adaptive evolution within marine rockfishes (Sebastes).
De novo sequencing and analysis of Lophophora williamsii transcriptome, and searching for putative genes involved in mescaline biosynthesis.
EST-based in silico identification and in vitro test of antimicrobial peptides in Brassica napus.
Andrographis paniculata transcriptome provides molecular insights into tissue-specific accumulation of medicinal diterpenes.
Integrative analysis of the microRNA-mRNA response to radiochemotherapy in primary head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cells.
RNAseq expression analysis of resistant and susceptible mice after influenza A virus infection identifies novel genes associated with virus replication and important for host resistance to infection.
De novo sequencing and analysis of the cranberry fruit transcriptome to identify putative genes involved in flavonoid biosynthesis, transport and regulation.
Generation of whole genome sequences of new Cryptosporidium hominis and Cryptosporidium parvum isolates directly from stool samples.
Long-term genomic selection for heterosis without dominance in multiplicative traits: case study of bunch production in oil palm.
Is the whole greater than the sum of its parts? De novo assembly strategies for bacterial genomes based on paired-end sequencing.
MGFM: a novel tool for detection of tissue and cell specific marker genes from microarray gene expression data.
Functional diversity of CTCFs is encoded in their binding motifs.
Development of a D genome specific marker resource for diploid and hexaploid wheat.
Snake venoms are integrated systems, but abundant venom proteins evolve more rapidly.
A clone-free, single molecule map of the domestic cow (Bos taurus) genome.
Transcriptome profiling during a natural host-parasite interaction.
A simple procedure for directly obtaining haplotype sequences of diploid genomes.
Haemophilus influenzae: using comparative genomics to accurately identify a highly recombinogenic human pathogen.
Skipper genome sheds light on unique phenotypic traits and phylogeny.
CspC regulates the expression of the glyoxylate cycle genes at stationary phase in Caulobacter.
RNAseq analysis of Aspergillus fumigatus in blood reveals a just wait and see resting stage behavior.
De novo transcriptome assembly and analysis to identify potential gene targets for RNAi-mediated control of the tomato leafminer (Tuta absoluta).
Transcriptomic changes of Legionella pneumophila in water.
MEXPRESS: visualizing expression, DNA methylation and clinical TCGA data.
Infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV) persistence in Sockeye Salmon: influence on brain transcriptome and subsequent response to the viral mimic poly(I:C).
Identification of microRNAs associated with allergic airway disease using a genetically diverse mouse population.
C/D box sRNA-guided 2′-O-methylation patterns of archaeal rRNA molecules.
Candidate effectors contribute to race differentiation and virulence of the lentil anthracnose pathogen Colletotrichum lentis.
Stool microbiota composition is associated with the prospective risk of Plasmodium falciparum infection.
Campylobacter group II phage CP21 is the prototype of a new subgroup revealing a distinct modular genome organization and host specificity.
Transcriptomic changes in the plant pathogenic fungus Rhizoctonia solani AG-3 in response to the antagonistic bacteria Serratia proteamaculans and Serratia plymuthica.
Deciphering common and specific transcriptional immune responses in pea towards the oomycete pathogens Aphanomyces euteiches and Phytophthora pisi.
Early evolutionary history and genomic features of gene duplicates in the human genome.
DNA methylation and gene expression dynamics during spermatogonial stem cell differentiation in the early postnatal mouse testis.
Evolutionary transitions in the Asteraceae coincide with marked shifts in transposable element abundance.
Male and female mice show significant differences in hepatic transcriptomic response to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
Characterization and comparative profiling of the small RNA transcriptomes in two phases of flowering in Cymbidium ensifolium.
Gene expression during zombie ant biting behavior reflects the complexity underlying fungal parasitic behavioral manipulation.
Characterization of a second secologanin synthase isoform producing both secologanin and secoxyloganin allows enhanced de novo assembly of a Catharanthus roseus transcriptome.
PhosphOrtholog: a web-based tool for cross-species mapping of orthologous protein post-translational modifications.
Phylogenomic and functional analyses of salmon lice aquaporins uncover the molecular diversity of the superfamily in Arthropoda.
BEACON: automated tool for Bacterial GEnome Annotation ComparisON.
Construction of a high-density genetic map using specific length amplified fragment markers and identification of a quantitative trait locus for anthracnose resistance in walnut (Juglans regia L.).
Identification of in vitro and in vivo disconnects using transcriptomic data.
Endogenous murine leukemia retroviral variation across wild European and inbred strains of house mouse.
A hybrid imputation approach for microarray missing value estimation.
A computational framework for the prioritization of disease-gene candidates.
Integrative analysis of multi-omics data for identifying multi-markers for diagnosing pancreatic cancer.
An unsupervised learning approach to find ovarian cancer genes through integration of biological data.
Evolutionary patchwork of an insecticidal toxin shared between plant-associated pseudomonads and the insect pathogens Photorhabdus and Xenorhabdus.
Comparative genome analysis of Mycoplasma pneumoniae.
Identifying and characterising key alternative splicing events in Drosophila development.
De novo assembly and characterisation of the field pea transcriptome using RNA-Seq.
Uncovering co-expression gene network modules regulating fruit acidity in diverse apples.
Distinct polymer physics principles govern chromatin dynamics in mouse and Drosophila topological domains.
Transcriptome analysis of the Holly mangrove Acanthus ilicifolius and its terrestrial relative, Acanthus leucostachyus, provides insights into adaptation to intertidal zones.
Transcriptional maturation of the mouse auditory forebrain.
Distribution and diversity of ribosome binding sites in prokaryotic genomes.
Genetic characteristics of soybean resistance to HG type 0 and HG type 1.2.3.5.7 of the cyst nematode analyzed by genome-wide association mapping.
Signatures of natural selection between life cycle stages separated by metamorphosis in European eel.
Diversity of the cell-wall associated genomic island of the archaeon Haloquadratum walsbyi.
Development of genome-wide insertion and deletion markers for maize, based on next-generation sequencing data.
Analysis of archived residual newborn screening blood spots after whole genome amplification.
Soybean transcription factor ORFeome associated with drought resistance: a valuable resource to accelerate research on abiotic stress resistance.
NanoCAGE-XL and CapFilter: an approach to genome wide identification of high confidence transcription start sites.
Deep sequencing of the Mexican avocado transcriptome, an ancient angiosperm with a high content of fatty acids.
Changepoint detection in base-resolution methylome data reveals a robust signature of methylated domain landscape.
ALOMYbase, a resource to investigate non-target-site-based resistance to herbicides inhibiting acetolactate-synthase (ALS) in the major grass weed Alopecurus myosuroides (black-grass).
Integrated analyses of zebrafish miRNA and mRNA expression profiles identify miR-29b and miR-223 as potential regulators of optic nerve regeneration.
Cell cycle control, DNA damage repair, and apoptosis-related pathways control pre-ameloblasts differentiation during tooth development.
A high-resolution physical map integrating an anchored chromosome with the BAC physical maps of wheat chromosome 6B.
Genetic architecture of cyst nematode resistance revealed by genome-wide association study in soybean.
Systems toxicology identifies mechanistic impacts of 2-amino-4,6-dinitrotoluene (2A-DNT) exposure in Northern Bobwhite.
Effect of 90Sr internal emitter on gene expression in mouse blood.
Reducing amplification artifacts in high multiplex amplicon sequencing by using molecular barcodes.
Putative type 1 thymidylate synthase and dihydrofolate reductase as signature genes of a novel bastille-like group of phages in the subfamily Spounavirinae.
The impact of chromatin remodelling on cellulase expression in Trichoderma reesei.
Trends in genome dynamics among major orders of insects revealed through variations in protein families.
A global analysis of the complex landscape of isoforms and regulatory networks of p63 in human cells and tissues.
Genetic signatures of adaptation revealed from transcriptome sequencing of Arctic and red foxes.
High-throughput and quantitative genome-wide messenger RNA sequencing for molecular phenotyping.
The complete mitochondrial genome sequence of the green microalga Lobosphaera (Parietochloris) incisa reveals a new type of palindromic repetitive repeat.
Comparison and evaluation of two exome capture kits and sequencing platforms for variant calling.
Identification of promising host-induced silencing targets among genes preferentially transcribed in haustoria of Puccinia.
Genetic analysis of Verticillium wilt resistance in a backcross inbred line population and a meta-analysis of quantitative trait loci for disease resistance in cotton.
A GWAS assessment of the contribution of genomic imprinting to the variation of body mass index in mice.
RNA-seq for gene identification and transcript profiling in relation to root growth of bermudagrass (Cynodon dactylon) under salinity stress.
A comparative analysis of host responses to avian influenza infection in ducks and chickens highlights a role for the interferon-induced transmembrane proteins in viral resistance.
The complete genome sequence of Dickeya zeae EC1 reveals substantial divergence from other Dickeya strains and species.
Recombination of chl-fus gene (Plastid Origin) downstream of hop: a locus of chromosomal instability.
Retraction Note: Species-specific chemosensory gene expression in the olfactory organs of the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae.
POTION: an end-to-end pipeline for positive Darwinian selection detection in genome-scale data through phylogenetic comparison of protein-coding genes.
Identification and functional analysis of early gene expression induced by circadian light-resetting in Drosophila.
MAC: identifying and correcting annotation for multi-nucleotide variations.
Identification of genes associated with shell color in the black-lipped pearl oyster, Pinctada margaritifera.
Analyzing allele specific RNA expression using mixture models.
Detection and characterization of small insertion and deletion genetic variants in modern layer chicken genomes.
RNA-sequencing elucidates the regulation of behavioural transitions associated with the mating process in honey bee queens.
Genome-wide association study revealed a promising region and candidate genes for eggshell quality in an F2 resource population.
RNAseq analysis of fast skeletal muscle in restriction-fed transgenic coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch): an experimental model uncoupling the growth hormone and nutritional signals regulating growth.
Sequence diversity and differential expression of major phenylpropanoid-flavonoid biosynthetic genes among three mango varieties.
Network analysis of temporal functionalities of the gut induced by perturbations in new-born piglets.
Quantitative proteomic analysis of formalin–fixed, paraffin–embedded clear cell renal cell carcinoma tissue using stable isotopic dimethylation of primary amines.
Transcriptional analysis of susceptible and resistant European corn borer strains and their response to Cry1F protoxin.
The Pkn22 Ser/Thr kinase in Nostoc PCC 7120: role of FurA and NtcA regulators and transcript profiling under nitrogen starvation and oxidative stress.
Global transcriptome and gene regulation network for secondary metabolite biosynthesis of tea plant (Camellia sinensis).
Deep sequencing-based characterization of transcriptome of trifoliate orange (Poncirus trifoliata (L.) Raf.) in response to cold stress.
Genomic analyses of pneumococci reveal a wide diversity of bacteriocins – including pneumocyclicin, a novel circular bacteriocin.
The genome of the truffle-parasite Tolypocladium ophioglossoides and the evolution of antifungal peptaibiotics.
Evolutionary insights from de novo transcriptome assembly and SNP discovery in California white oaks.
Genomic sequence of the aflatoxigenic filamentous fungus Aspergillus nomius.
Transcriptome analysis of bacteriophage communities in periodontal health and disease.
Whole transcriptome profiling of the vernalization process in Lilium longiflorum (cultivar White Heaven) bulbs.
Identifying new sex-linked genes through BAC sequencing in the dioecious plant Silene latifolia.
Experimental validation of methods for differential gene expression analysis and sample pooling in RNA-seq.
Common and specific downstream signaling targets controlled by Tlr2 and Tlr5 innate immune signaling in zebrafish.
Combined serial analysis of gene expression and transcription factor binding site prediction identifies novel-candidate-target genes of Nr2e1 in neocortex development.
The completed genome sequence of the pathogenic ascomycete fungus Fusarium graminearum.
Evolutionary engineering of a wine yeast strain revealed a key role of inositol and mannoprotein metabolism during low-temperature fermentation.
The serine/threonine kinase 33 is present and expressed in palaeognath birds but has become a unitary pseudogene in neognaths about 100 million years ago.
Populational landscape of INDELs affecting transcription factor-binding sites in humans.
Marsupials and monotremes possess a novel family of MHC class I genes that is lost from the eutherian lineage.
Unearthing the genomes of plant-beneficial Pseudomonas model strains WCS358, WCS374 and WCS417.
Regulation of microRNA during cardiomyocyte maturation in sheep.
Runs of homozygosity and distribution of functional variants in the cattle genome.
Scrutinizing the immune defence inventory of Camponotus floridanus applying total transcriptome sequencing.
RiTE database: a resource database for genus-wide rice genomics and evolutionary biology.
Identification and transcriptomic profiling of genes involved in increasing sugar content during salt stress in sweet sorghum leaves.
Identification of sequences common to more than one therapeutic target to treat complex diseases: simulating the high variance in sequence interactivity evolved to modulate robust phenotypes.
Integrating Phosphoproteomics and Bioinformatics to Study Brassinosteroid-Regulated Phosphorylation Dynamics in Arabidopsis.
Genome sequence and comparative analysis of a putative entomopathogenic Serratia isolated from Caenorhabditis briggsae.
Genes involved in sex pheromone biosynthesis of Ephestia cautella, an important food storage pest, are determined by transcriptome sequencing.
Analysis of the TGFβ-induced program in primary airway epithelial cells shows essential role of NF-κB/RelA signaling network in type II epithelial mesenchymal transition.
Single-cell transcriptomics using spliced leader PCR: Evidence for multiple losses of photosynthesis in polykrikoid dinoflagellates.
Comparison of genomic signatures of selection on Plasmodium falciparum between different regions of a country with high malaria endemicity.
Transfer of energy pathway genes in microbial enhanced biological phosphorus removal communities.
De novo assembly and characterization of central nervous system transcriptome reveals neurotransmitter signaling systems in the rice striped stem borer, Chilo suppressalis.
The sulfur/sulfonates transport systems in Xanthomonas citri pv. citri.
A semi-supervised approach uncovers thousands of intragenic enhancers differentially activated in human cells.
An assembly and alignment-free method of phylogeny reconstruction from next-generation sequencing data.
Drosophila anti-nematode and antibacterial immune regulators revealed by RNA-Seq.
Soybean (Glycine max) SWEET gene family: insights through comparative genomics, transcriptome profiling and whole genome re-sequence analysis.
De novo assembly of a transcriptome from juvenile blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus) following exposure to surrogate Macondo crude oil.
Mobile element insertions are frequent in oesophageal adenocarcinomas and can mislead paired-end sequencing analysis.
Transcriptome sequencing of microglial cells stimulated with TLR3 and TLR4 ligands.
Whole blood microarray analysis of pigs showing extreme phenotypes after a porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus infection.
Genome-wide analysis of signatures of selection in populations of African honey bees (Apis mellifera) using new web-based tools.
Genome-wide characterization of intergenic polyadenylation sites redefines gene spaces in Arabidopsis thaliana.
Protein functional features are reflected in the patterns of mRNA translation speed.
Genome-wide identification and Phylogenic analysis of kelch motif containing ACBP in Brassica napus.
The diagnostic application of targeted re-sequencing in Korean patients with retinitis pigmentosa.
Cell periphery-related proteins as major genomic targets behind the adaptive evolution of an industrial Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain to combined heat and hydrolysate stress.
Six host-range restricted poxviruses from three genera induce distinct gene expression profiles in an in vivo mouse model.
Read count-based method for high-throughput allelic genotyping of transposable elements and structural variants.
Proteome from patients with metabolic syndrome is regulated by quantity and quality of dietary lipids.
DNA methylation and gene expression in Mimulus guttatus.
Arterial endothelial methylome: differential DNA methylation in athero-susceptible disturbed flow regions in vivo.
The Medicago sativa gene index 1.2: a web-accessible gene expression atlas for investigating expression differences between Medicago sativa subspecies.
Use of the de novo transcriptome analysis of silver-leaf nightshade (Solanum elaeagnifolium) to identify gene expression changes associated with wounding and terpene biosynthesis.
Daytime soybean transcriptome fluctuations during water deficit stress.
Tumor characterization and stratification by integrated molecular profiles reveals essential pan-cancer features.
Reorganization of metastamiRs in the evolution of metastatic aggressive neuroblastoma cells.
Differential gene expression between hygienic and non-hygienic honeybee (Apis mellifera L.) hives.
Chromosomal copy number variation reveals differential levels of genomic plasticity in distinct Trypanosoma cruzi strains.
Refined analysis of the Campylobacter jejuni iron-dependent/independent Fur- and PerR-transcriptomes.
Transcriptional response of Atlantic salmon families to Piscirickettsia salmonis infection highlights the relevance of the iron-deprivation defence system.
Genomic copy number variation in Mus musculus.
Horizontal gene transfer in an acid mine drainage microbial community.
Stool metatranscriptomics: A technical guideline for mRNA stabilisation and isolation.
Transciptomic and histological analysis of hepatopancreas, muscle and gill tissues of oriental river prawn (Macrobrachium nipponense) in response to chronic hypoxia.
High-throughput phenotyping and genetic linkage of cortical bone microstructure in the mouse.
Carotenoid biosynthetic genes in Brassica rapa: comparative genomic analysis, phylogenetic analysis, and expression profiling.
Patterns of gene expression during Arabidopsis flower development from the time of initiation to maturation.
Systematically dissecting the global mechanism of miRNA functions in mouse pluripotent stem cells.
Expression patterns, molecular markers and genetic diversity of insect-susceptible and resistant Barbarea genotypes by comparative transcriptome analysis.
An efficiency analysis of high-order combinations of gene–gene interactions using multifactor-dimensionality reduction.
QuickNGS elevates Next-Generation Sequencing data analysis to a new level of automation.
The Streptomyces leeuwenhoekii genome: de novo sequencing and assembly in single contigs of the chromosome, circular plasmid pSLE1 and linear plasmid pSLE2.
A user-friendly workflow for analysis of Illumina gene expression bead array data available at the arrayanalysis.org portal.
Tobacco drought stress responses reveal new targets for Solanaceae crop improvement.
Genome-wide association analysis identified splicing single nucleotide polymorphism in CFLAR predictive of triptolide chemo-sensitivity.
Erratum: Computational identification of multi-omic correlates of anticancer therapeutic response.
HIV-1 gp120 influences the expression of microRNAs in human monocyte-derived dendritic cells via STAT3 activation.
Metabolomic and transcriptomic insights into how cotton fiber transitions to secondary wall synthesis, represses lignification, and prolongs elongation.
Core oxidative stress response in Aspergillus nidulans.
Global analyses of TetR family transcriptional regulators in mycobacteria indicates conservation across species and diversity in regulated functions.
Gene expression analysis of skin grafts and cultured keratinocytes using synthetic RNA normalization reveals insights into differentiation and growth control.
The human cardiac and skeletal muscle proteomes defined by transcriptomics and antibody-based profiling.
Linked genetic variants on chromosome 10 control ear morphology and body mass among dog breeds.
RNA-Seq analysis of resistant and susceptible potato varieties during the early stages of potato virus Y infection.
Global transcriptional analysis of Burkholderia pseudomallei high and low biofilm producers reveals insights into biofilm production and virulence.
Transcriptome profiling provides new insights into the formation of floral scent in Hedychium coronarium.
Distinctive expansion of gene families associated with plant cell wall degradation, secondary metabolism, and nutrient uptake in the genomes of grapevine trunk pathogens.
Comparison of GENCODE and RefSeq gene annotation and the impact of reference geneset on variant effect prediction.
Computational methods and resources for the interpretation of genomic variants in cancer.
Insights from GWAS: emerging landscape of mechanisms underlying complex trait disease.
Bioinformatics analysis of thousands of TCGA tumors to determine the involvement of epigenetic regulators in human cancer.
Differential Evolution approach to detect recent admixture.
Better prediction of functional effects for sequence variants.
Conditional entropy in variation-adjusted windows detects selection signatures associated with expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs).
Disease-associated variants in different categories of disease located in distinct regulatory elements.
VarI-SIG 2014 - From SNPs to variants: interpreting different types of genetic variants.
NET-GE: a novel NETwork-based Gene Enrichment for detecting biological processes associated to Mendelian diseases.
RNA-seq analysis of an apical meristem time series reveals a critical point in Arabidopsis thaliana flower initiation.
Identification of a common risk haplotype for canine idiopathic epilepsy in the ADAM23 gene.
Hox cluster characterization of Banna caecilian (Ichthyophis bannanicus) provides hints for slow evolution of its genome.
Functional marker development of miR1511-InDel and allelic diversity within the genus Glycine.
Comparative transcriptome profiling of Pyropia yezoensis (Ueda) M.S. Hwang & H.G. Choi in response to temperature stresses.
Whole-genome cartography of p53 response elements ranked on transactivation potential.
piRNA-like small RNAs mark extended 3’UTRs present in germ and somatic cells.
Genome-wide transcriptomic analysis of a superior biomass-degrading strain of A. fumigatus revealed active lignocellulose-degrading genes.
Sex and parasites: genomic and transcriptomic analysis of Microbotryum lychnidis-dioicae, the biotrophic and plant-castrating anther smut fungus.
De novo assembly of the Carcinus maenas transcriptome and characterization of innate immune system pathways.
Deep sequencing, profiling and detailed annotation of microRNAs in Takifugu rubripes.
Comparative mitogenomic analysis of the superfamily Pentatomoidea (Insecta: Hemiptera: Heteroptera) and phylogenetic implications.
Interlocus gene conversion explains at least 2.7 % of single nucleotide variants in human segmental duplications.
The physical map of wheat chromosome 5DS revealed gene duplications and small rearrangements.
deGPS is a powerful tool for detecting differential expression in RNA-sequencing studies.
Strand-specific RNA sequencing in Plasmodium falciparum malaria identifies developmentally regulated long non-coding RNA and circular RNA.
Oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes: comparative genomics and network perspectives.
Prediction of promoters and enhancers using multiple DNA methylation-associated features.
A computational method for clinically relevant cancer stratification and driver mutation module discovery using personal genomics profiles.
Dysregulated transcription across diverse cancer types reveals the importance of RNA-binding protein in carcinogenesis.
Comprehensive genome-wide transcription factor analysis reveals that a combination of high affinity and low affinity DNA binding is needed for human gene regulation.
Network-based stratification analysis of 13 major cancer types using mutations in panels of cancer genes.
BMRF-MI: integrative identification of protein interaction network by modeling the gene dependency.
Differential expression analysis of RNA sequencing data by incorporating non-exonic mapped reads.
Application of a hierarchical enzyme classification method reveals the role of gut microbiome in human metabolism.
Co-modulation analysis of gene regulation in breast cancer reveals complex interplay between ESR1 and ERBB2 genes.
A translational bioinformatic approach in identifying and validating an interaction between Vitamin A and CYP19A1.
Education, collaboration, and innovation: intelligent biology and medicine in the era of big data.
Network-based gene prediction for Plasmodium falciparum malaria towards genetics-based drug discovery.
Discovery and characterization of long intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNA) module biomarkers in prostate cancer: an integrative analysis of RNA-Seq data.
A genome-wide systems analysis reveals strong link between colorectal cancer and trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO), a gut microbial metabolite of dietary meat and fat.
Systems analysis of gene ontology and biological pathways involved in post-myocardial infarction responses.
Global transcriptome analysis profiles metabolic pathways in traditional herb Astragalus membranaceus Bge. var. mongolicus (Bge.) Hsiao.
Multiple signatures of a disease in potential biomarker space: Getting the signatures consensus and identification of novel biomarkers.
MOST+: A de novo motif finding approach combining genomic sequence and heterogeneous genome-wide signatures.
The Eucalyptus terpene synthase gene family.
Population structure of mitochondrial genomes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
CMRegNet–An interspecies reference database for corynebacterial and mycobacterial regulatory networks.
Identification of two key genes controlling chill haze stability of beer in barley (Hordeum vulgare L).
Co-cultivation and transcriptome sequencing of two co-existing fish pathogens Moritella viscosa and Aliivibrio wodanis.
Transcriptome sequencing and annotation of the polychaete Hermodice carunculata (Annelida, Amphinomidae).
Comparative genomic and phenomic analysis of Clostridium difficile and Clostridium sordellii, two related pathogens with differing host tissue preference.
Comparative transcriptomics analysis reveals difference of key gene expression between banana and plantain in response to cold stress.
The distribution and evolution of Arabidopsis thaliana cis natural antisense transcripts.
Ribosome profiling reveals translation control as a key mechanism generating differential gene expression in Trypanosoma cruzi.
Comparative transcriptional profiling analysis of developing melon (Cucumis melo L.) fruit from climacteric and non-climacteric varieties.
A novel mitochondrial genome architecture in thrips (Insecta: Thysanoptera): extreme size asymmetry among chromosomes and possible recent control region duplication.
The venomous cocktail of the vampire snail Colubraria reticulata (Mollusca, Gastropoda).
Expansion of the HSFY gene family in pig lineages: HSFY expansion in suids.
Non-thermal plasma treatment altered gene expression profiling in non-small-cell lung cancer A549 cells.
Whole genome capture of vector-borne pathogens from mixed DNA samples: a case study of Borrelia burgdorferi.
Genome-wide analysis of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter gene family in sea lamprey and Japanese lamprey.
Erratum: Induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neuronal cells from a sporadic Alzheimer's disease donor as a model for investigating AD-associated gene regulatory networks.
Copy number alterations and allelic ratio in relation to recurrence of rectal cancer.
Recent genomic heritage in Scotland.
The genome of Diuraphis noxia, a global aphid pest of small grains.
Comparative proteomic analysis of drought tolerance in the two contrasting Tibetan wild genotypes and cultivated genotype.
Reference genome of wild goat (capra aegagrus) and sequencing of goat breeds provide insight into genic basis of goat domestication.
Genetic architecture is more complex for resistance to Septoria tritici blotch than to Fusarium head blight in Central European winter wheat.
RNA-seq analysis reveals genetic response and tolerance mechanisms to ozone exposure in soybean.
Partial depletion of yolk during zebrafish embryogenesis changes the dynamics of methionine cycle and metabolic genes.
Mitochondrial phylogenomics and genetic relationships of closely related pine moth (Lasiocampidae: Dendrolimus) species in China, using whole mitochondrial genomes.
Genome-wide identification of the Phaseolus vulgaris sRNAome using small RNA and degradome sequencing.
Characterizing the neurotranscriptomic states in alternative stress coping styles.
The complete methylome of Helicobacter pylori UM032.
RAP: RNA-Seq Analysis Pipeline, a new cloud-based NGS web application.
FunPat: function-based pattern analysis on RNA-seq time series data.
Detection of miRNA regulatory effect on triple negative breast cancer transcriptome.
MONSTER v1.1: a tool to extract and search for RNA non-branching structures.
Detection of gene annotations and protein-protein interaction associated disorders through transitive relationships between integrated annotations.
Quantitative proteomic analysis of host—pathogen interactions: a study of Acinetobacter baumannii responses to host airways.
Controlling for conservation in genome-wide DNA methylation studies.
APOL1 G1 genotype modifies the association between HDLC and kidney function in African Americans.
Single nucleotide resolution RNA-seq uncovers new regulatory mechanisms in the opportunistic pathogen Streptococcus agalactiae.
Concurrent host-pathogen gene expression in the lungs of pigs challenged with Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae.
Early life microbial colonization of the gut and intestinal development differ between genetically divergent broiler lines.
Identification of a putative quantitative trait nucleotide in guanylate binding protein 5 for host response to PRRS virus infection.
Unravelling the genome of Holy basil: an “incomparable” “elixir of life” of traditional Indian medicine.
De novo transcriptome characterization and gene expression profiling of the desiccation tolerant moss Bryum argenteum following rehydration.
Using whole-genome sequences of the LG/J and SM/J inbred mouse strains to prioritize quantitative trait genes and nucleotides.
Key genes as stress indicators in the ubiquitous diatom Skeletonema marinoi.
A novel termini analysis theory using HTS data alone for the identification of Enterococcus phage EF4-like genome termini.
Polyketide synthesis genes associated with toxin production in two species of Gambierdiscus (Dinophyceae).
A bi-filtering method for processing single nucleotide polymorphism array data improves the quality of genetic map and accuracy of quantitative trait locus mapping in doubled haploid populations of polyploid Brassica napus.
Neural transcriptome reveals molecular mechanisms for temporal control of vocalization across multiple timescales.
Transcriptome and venom proteome of the box jellyfish Chironex fleckeri.
DISMIRA: Prioritization of disease candidates in miRNA-disease associations based on maximum weighted matching inference model and motif-based analysis.
Memory acquisition and retrieval impact different epigenetic processes that regulate gene expression.
Comparative proteomics of cerebrospinal fluid reveals a predictive model for differential diagnosis of pneumococcal, meningococcal, and enteroviral meningitis, and novel putative therapeutic targets.
A database for the taxonomic and phylogenetic identification of the genus Bradyrhizobium using multilocus sequence analysis.
Structural investigations of T854A mutation in EGFR and identification of novel inhibitors using structure activity relationships.
ProCARs: Progressive Reconstruction of Ancestral Gene Orders.
Integrative network-based approach identifies key genetic elements in breast invasive carcinoma.
Revisitingmolecular serotyping of Streptococcus pneumoniae.
Direct ChIP-Seq significance analysis improves target prediction.
Genome informatics and vaccine targets in Corynebacterium urealyticum using two whole genomes, comparative genomics, and reverse vaccinology.
An integrated structural proteomics approach along the druggable genome of Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis species for putative druggable targets.
Analyse multiple disease subtypes and build associated gene networks using genome-wide expression profiles.
Second generation physical and linkage maps of yellowtail (Seriola quinqueradiata) and comparison of synteny with four model fish.
The UBC-40 Urothelial Bladder Cancer cell line index: a genomic resource for functional studies.
Comparative analysis of plant carbohydrate active enZymes and their role in xylogenesis.
The potential role of Alu Y in the development of resistance to SN38 (Irinotecan) or oxaliplatin in colorectal cancer.
Assessing models for genetic prediction of complex traits: a comparison of visualization and quantitative methods.
Comparative genome analysis of Pseudogymnoascus spp. reveals primarily clonal evolution with small genome fragments exchanged between lineages.
Global transcription of CRISPR loci in the human oral cavity.
Characterization of a novel chicken muscle disorder through differential gene expression and pathway analysis using RNA-sequencing.
Transcriptome sequencing and analysis of rubber tree (Hevea brasiliensis Muell.) to discover putative genes associated with tapping panel dryness (TPD).
Harnessing cross-species alignment to discover SNPs and generate a draft genome sequence of a bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis).
Using the taxon-specific genes for the taxonomic classification of bacterial genomes.
Glyphosate’s impact on vegetative growth in leafy spurge identifies molecular processes and hormone cross-talk associated with increased branching.
Genetic diversity of male and female Chinese bayberry (Myrica rubra) populations and identification of sex-associated markers.
miRVine: a microRNA expression atlas of grapevine based on small RNA sequencing.
Clostridium sordellii genome analysis reveals plasmid localized toxin genes encoded within pathogenicity loci.
Identification and characterisation of putative seminal fluid proteins from male reproductive tissue EST libraries in tiger beetles.
Single-molecule sequencing reveals the molecular basis of multidrug-resistance in ST772 methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
CGGBP1 mitigates cytosine methylation at repetitive DNA sequences.
Lineage specific evolution of the VNTR composite retrotransposon central domain and its role in retrotransposition of gibbon LAVA elements.
Genomic and experimental evidence for multiple metabolic functions in the RidA/YjgF/YER057c/UK114 (Rid) protein family.
A multi-SNP association test for complex diseases incorporating an optimal P-value threshold algorithm in nuclear families.
Transcriptional events co-regulated by hypoxia and cold stresses in Zebrafish larvae.
Deep developmental transcriptome sequencing uncovers numerous new genes and enhances gene annotation in the sponge Amphimedon queenslandica.
Genome-wide identification of MAPK, MAPKK, and MAPKKK gene families and transcriptional profiling analysis during development and stress response in cucumber.
Microarray transcriptional profiling of Arctic Mesorhizobium strain N33 at low temperature provides insights into cold adaption strategies.
Non-synonymous mutations mapped to chromosome X associated with andrological and growth traits in beef cattle.
Identification of REST targets in the Xenopus tropicalis genome.
Characterization of repetitive DNA landscape in wheat homeologous group 4 chromosomes.
Dynamic transcriptome profiles of skeletal muscle tissue across 11 developmental stages for both Tongcheng and Yorkshire pigs.
Identification and characterization of expressed retrotransposons in the genome of the Paracoccidioides species complex.
Differences in brain gene transcription profiles advocate for an important role of cognitive function in upstream migration and water obstacles crossing in European eel.
Unravelling the complex trait of harvest index in rapeseed (Brassica napus L.) with association mapping.
Homologues of potato chromosome 5 show variable collinearity in the euchromatin, but dramatic absence of sequence similarity in the pericentromeric heterochromatin.
RNA-Seq versus oligonucleotide array assessment of dose-dependent TCDD-elicited hepatic gene expression in mice.
Comparative transcriptome profiling approach to glean virulence and immunomodulation-related genes of Fasciola hepatica.
Lipid metabolism and Type VII secretion systems dominate the genome scale virulence profile of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in human dendritic cells.
Gene expression associated with white syndromes in a reef building coral, Acropora hyacinthus.
Prediction accuracies for growth and wood attributes of interior spruce in space using genotyping-by-sequencing.
Estrogen receptor beta impacts hormone-induced alternative mRNA splicing in breast cancer cells.
Identification of pneumococcal colonization determinants in the stringent response pathway facilitated by genomic diversity.
Classification of fungal and bacterial lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases.
Digital gene expression approach over multiple RNA-Seq data sets to detect neoblast transcriptional changes in Schmidtea mediterranea.
Integrated microRNA, mRNA, and protein expression profiling reveals microRNA regulatory networks in rat kidney treated with a carcinogenic dose of aristolochic acid.
Comparative transcriptomics uncovers alternative splicing changes and signatures of selection from maize improvement.
A modified multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification method for the detection of 22q11.2 copy number variations in patients with congenital heart disease.
Unraveling incompatibility between wheat and the fungal pathogen Zymoseptoria tritici through apoplastic proteomics.
Molecular tools to support metabolic and immune function research in the Guinea Fowl (Numida meleagris).
An empirical strategy to detect bacterial transcript structure from directional RNA-seq transcriptome data.
Identification and distribution of the NBS-LRR gene family in the Cassava genome.
Tandem Duplication and Random Loss for mitogenome rearrangement in Symphurus (Teleost: Pleuronectiformes).
Genomic characterization of mutant laboratory mouse strains by exome sequencing and annotation lift-over.
Activation of defence pathways in Scots pine bark after feeding by pine weevil (Hylobius abietis).
Genomic landscape of rat strain and substrain variation.
Quantitative and multiplexed DNA methylation analysis using long-read single-molecule real-time bisulfite sequencing (SMRT-BS).
Comparative genome analysis of rice-pathogenic Burkholderia provides insight into capacity to adapt to different environments and hosts.
Transcriptome assembly, profiling and differential gene expression analysis of the halophyte Suaeda fruticosa provides insights into salt tolerance.
qRT-PCR evaluation of the transcriptional response of zebra mussel to heavy metals.
Non-uniqueness of factors constraint on the codon usage in Bombyx mori.
Genomic features separating ten strains of Neorhizobium galegae with different symbiotic phenotypes.
Erratum: Secretome weaponries of Cochliobolus lunatus interacting with potato leaf at different temperature regimes reveal a CL[xxxx]LHM - motif.
Mutations upstream of fabI in triclosan resistant Staphylococcus aureus strains are associated with elevated fabI gene expression.
Transciptome analysis reveals flavonoid biosynthesis regulation and simple sequence repeats in yam (Dioscorea alata L.) tubers.
The AVRDC – The World Vegetable Center mungbean (Vigna radiata) core and mini core collections.
Fungal artificial chromosomes for mining of the fungal secondary metabolome.
An integrative approach to identify hexaploid wheat miRNAome associated with development and tolerance to abiotic stress.
Early response to nanoparticles in the Arabidopsis transcriptome compromises plant defence and root-hair development through salicylic acid signalling.
Characterization and identification of hidden rare variants in the human genome.
Pathway reporter genes define molecular phenotypes of human cells.
Virulence related sequences; insights provided by comparative genomics of Streptococcus uberis of differing virulence.
The uniform-score gene set analysis for identifying common pathways associated with different diabetes traits.
Identification and characterization of cichlid TAAR genes and comparison with other teleost TAAR repertoires.
The pathogenic human Torsin A in Drosophila activates the unfolded protein response and increases susceptibility to oxidative stress.
Long non-coding RNA discovery across the genus anopheles reveals conserved secondary structures within and beyond the Gambiae complex.
A novel member of the let-7 microRNA family is associated with developmental transitions in filarial nematode parasites.
Transcriptomic profiles of aging in purified human immune cells.
Copy number variation in the speciation of pigs: a possible prominent role for olfactory receptors.
Metatranscriptomic profiles of Eastern subterranean termites, Reticulitermes flavipes (Kollar) fed on second generation feedstocks.
Poplar trees reconfigure the transcriptome and metabolome in response to drought in a genotype- and time-of-day-dependent manner.
Parameter optimization for constructing competing endogenous RNA regulatory network in glioblastoma multiforme and other cancers.
HEPeak: an HMM-based exome peak-finding package for RNA epigenome sequencing data.
A structure-based Multiple-Instance Learning approach to predicting in vitro transcription factor-DNA interaction.
Genome assembly using Nanopore-guided long and error-free DNA reads.
Genome sequencing of the Trichoderma reesei QM9136 mutant identifies a truncation of the transcriptional regulator XYR1 as the cause for its cellulase-negative phenotype.
Genome-wide identification of SSR and SNP markers from the non-heading Chinese cabbage for comparative genomic analyses.
Dual 3’Seq using deepSuperSAGE uncovers transcriptomes of interacting Salmonella enterica Typhimurium and human host cells.
Microarray: a global analysis of biomineralization-related gene expression profiles during larval development in the pearl oyster, Pinctada fucata.
Transcriptional landscape of psoriasis identifies the involvement of IL36 and IL36RN.
Transcriptome analysis reveals the host response to Schmallenberg virus in bovine cells and antagonistic effects of the NSs protein.
High throughput profiling of the cotton bollworm Helicoverpa armigera immunotranscriptome during the fungal and bacterial infections.
Characterization of chromosomal and megaplasmid partitioning loci in Thermus thermophilus HB27.
SNP identification and marker assay development for high-throughput selection of soybean cyst nematode resistance.
Comparative genomic analysis reveals occurrence of genetic recombination in virulent Cryptosporidium hominis subtypes and telomeric gene duplications in Cryptosporidium parvum.
Pan-genome dynamics of Pseudomonas gene complements enriched across hexachlorocyclohexane dumpsite.
Transcriptome and hormone profiling reveals Eucalyptus grandis defence responses against Chrysoporthe austroafricana.
High-throughput, quantitative assessment of the effects of low-dose silica nanoparticles on lung cells: grasping complex toxicity with a great depth of field.
Cost-efficient multiplex PCR for routine genotyping of up to nine classical HLA loci in a single analytical run of multiple samples by next generation sequencing.
Histone modifications induced by MDV infection at early cytolytic and latency phases.
Genome-wide next-generation DNA and RNA sequencing reveals a mutation that perturbs splicing of the phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis class H gene (PIGH) and causes arthrogryposis in Belgian Blue cattle.
Homozygous haplotype deficiency reveals deleterious mutations compromising reproductive and rearing success in cattle.
Plastome organization and evolution of chloroplast genes in Cardamine species adapted to contrasting habitats.
Genome-wide co-occupancy of AML1-ETO and N-CoR defines the t(8;21) AML signature in leukemic cells.
NF-κB and IRF pathways: cross-regulation on target genes promoter level.
Novel insights into the insect trancriptome response to a natural DNA virus.
Molecular insights into land snail neuropeptides through transcriptome and comparative gene analysis.
Temperature during early development has long-term effects on microRNA expression in Atlantic cod.
MicroRNAs enrichment in GWAS of complex human phenotypes.
A family of small cyclic amphipathic peptides (SCAmpPs) genes in citrus.
Recent artificial selection in U.S. Jersey cattle impacts autozygosity levels of specific genomic regions.
Global scale transcriptome analysis of Arabidopsis embryogenesis in vitro.
Different distribution of histone modifications in genes with unidirectional and bidirectional transcription and a role of CTCF and cohesin in directing transcription.
RNA interference screen reveals a high proportion of mitochondrial proteins essential for correct cell cycle progress in Trypanosoma brucei.
Mutations and genomic islands can explain the strain dependency of sugar utilization in 21 strains of Propionibacterium freudenreichii.
Enrichment of Triticum aestivum gene annotations using ortholog cliques and gene ontologies in other plants.
De novo transcriptome assembly of the wild relative of tea tree (Camellia taliensis) and comparative analysis with tea transcriptome identified putative genes associated with tea quality and stress response.
Sexually dimorphic gene expression emerges with embryonic genome activation and is dynamic throughout development.
Common binding by redundant group B Sox proteins is evolutionarily conserved in Drosophila.
Codon usage and codon context bias in Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous.
Leaps and lulls in the developmental transcriptome of Dictyostelium discoideum.
Modelling the genetic architecture of flowering time control in barley through nested association mapping.
Transcriptional profile of sweet orange in response to chitosan and salicylic acid.
Proteomic and metabolomic analysis of the carotenogenic yeast Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous using different carbon sources.
Incomplete meiotic sex chromosome inactivation in the domestic dog.
Assessing structural variation in a personal genome—towards a human reference diploid genome.
Extensive intra-phylotype diversity in lactobacilli and bifidobacteria from the honeybee gut.
Annotation of the goat genome using next generation sequencing of microRNA expressed by the lactating mammary gland: comparison of three approaches.
DNA methylation of the LIN28 pseudogene family.
Recurrence-associated pathways in hepatitis B virus-positive hepatocellular carcinoma.
Investigating the mobilome in clinically important lineages of Enterococcus faecium and Enterococcus faecalis.
Endogenous siRNAs and piRNAs derived from transposable elements and genes in the malaria vector mosquito Anopheles gambiae.
Copy number variations in high and low fertility breeding boars.
SNPchiMp v.3: integrating and standardizing single nucleotide polymorphism data for livestock species.
A mRNA landscape of bovine embryos after standard and MAPK-inhibited culture conditions: a comparative analysis.
Identification and characterization of rye genes not expressed in allohexaploid triticale.
Genome-wide investigation of mRNA lifetime determinants in Escherichia coli cells cultured at different growth rates.
One-step generation of multiple transgenic mouse lines using an improved Pronuclear Injection-based Targeted Transgenesis (i-PITT).
Erratum to: inferring the global structure of chromosomes from structural variations.
Meloidogyne javanica fatty acid- and retinol-binding protein (Mj-FAR-1) regulates expression of lipid-, cell wall-, stress- and phenylpropanoid-related genes during nematode infection of tomato.
Analysis of whole genome sequencing for the Escherichia coli O157:H7 typing phages.
Intrinsic terminators in Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae transcription.
Comparative genomic analysis of Ralstonia solanacearum reveals candidate genes for host specificity.
Transcriptome and expression profiling analysis link patterns of gene expression to antennal responses in Spodoptera litura.
Genomic factors related to tissue tropism in Chlamydia pneumoniae infection.
How do SNP ascertainment schemes and population demographics affect inferences about population history?
SDhaP: haplotype assembly for diploids and polyploids via semi-definite programming.
Pervasive and opposing effects of Unpredictable Chronic Mild Stress (UCMS) on hippocampal gene expression in BALB/cJ and C57BL/6J mouse strains.
Whole-genome analysis of Fusarium graminearum insertional mutants identifies virulence associated genes and unmasks untagged chromosomal deletions.
Transcriptome analysis of leaves, roots and flowers of Panax notoginseng identifies genes involved in ginsenoside and alkaloid biosynthesis.
Targeted single molecule sequencing methodology for ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome.
The transcriptome of a complete episode of acute otitis media.
Comparative genome analysis of Pediococcus damnosus LMG 28219, a strain well-adapted to the beer environment.
ENCAPP: elastic-net-based prognosis prediction and biomarker discovery for human cancers.
Gene expression profiles in Rana pirica tadpoles following exposure to a predation threat.
Genomic variation in tomato, from wild ancestors to contemporary breeding accessions.
GRACOMICS: software for graphical comparison of multiple results with omics data.
De novo sequencing of the Hypericum perforatum L. flower transcriptome to identify potential genes that are related to plant reproduction sensu lato.
Chemosensory genes identified in the antennal transcriptome of the blowfly Calliphora stygia.
Proteomic analysis of Citrus sinensis roots and leaves in response to long-term magnesium-deficiency.
A new platform for ultra-high density Staphylococcus aureus transposon libraries.
Spiked GBS: a unified, open platform for single marker genotyping and whole-genome profiling.
Regulatory nodD1 and nodD2 genes of Rhizobium tropici strain CIAT 899 and their roles in the early stages of molecular signaling and host-legume nodulation.
Identification of ncRNAs as potential therapeutic targets in multiple sclerosis through differential ncRNA – mRNA network analysis.
Comparative transcriptome analysis within the Lolium/Festuca species complex reveals high sequence conservation.
Functional characterization of BC039389-GATM and KLK4-KRSP1 chimeric read-through transcripts which are up-regulated in renal cell cancer.
Unique patterns of transcript and miRNA expression in the South American strong voltage electric eel (Electrophorus electricus).
Transcriptome responses to Ralstonia solanacearum infection in the roots of the wild potato Solanum commersonii.
Pre-symptomatic transcriptome changes during cold storage of chilling sensitive and resistant peach cultivars to elucidate chilling injury mechanisms.
Erratum: Genome sequencing of Sporisorium scitamineum provides insights into the pathogenic mechanisms of sugarcane smut.
SV-AUTOPILOT: optimized, automated construction of structural variation discovery and benchmarking pipelines.
Comparative transcriptomics of a complex of four European pine species.
CLARK: fast and accurate classification of metagenomic and genomic sequences using discriminative k-mers.
The RNAi machinery controls distinct responses to environmental signals in the basal fungus Mucor circinelloides.
The genome of the basal agaricomycete Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous provides insights into the organization of its acetyl-CoA derived pathways and the evolution of Agaricomycotina.
The Alternaria genomes database: a comprehensive resource for a fungal genus comprised of saprophytes, plant pathogens, and allergenic species.
X-inactivation informs variance-based testing for X-linked association of a quantitative trait.
Global liver gene expression differences in Nelore steers with divergent residual feed intake phenotypes.
Nourishment level affects caste-related gene expression in Polistes wasps.
Complete genome sequence and analysis of Lactobacillus hokkaidonensis LOOC260T, a psychrotrophic lactic acid bacterium isolated from silage.
Distinguishing low frequency mutations from RT-PCR and sequence errors in viral deep sequencing data.
Distribution in microbial genomes of genes similar to lodA and goxA which encode a novel family of quinoproteins with amino acid oxidase activity.
Genome-wide exploration of the molecular evolution and regulatory network of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades upon multiple stresses in Brachypodium distachyon.
Global epigenomic analysis indicates that Epialleles contribute to Allele-specific expression via Allele-specific histone modifications in hybrid rice.
Identification of hydroxy fatty acid and triacylglycerol metabolism-related genes in lesquerella through seed transcriptome analysis.
Genome-wide evolutionary characterization and analysis of bZIP transcription factors and their expression profiles in response to multiple abiotic stresses in Brachypodium distachyon.
Genome reduction and potential metabolic complementation of the dual endosymbionts in the whitefly Bemisia tabaci.
A RNA-seq approach to identify putative toxins from acrorhagi in aggressive and non-aggressive Anthopleura elegantissima polyps.
Sequencing, identification and mapping of primed L1 elements (SIMPLE) reveals significant variation in full length L1 elements between individuals.
Transcriptomic analysis of Litchi chinensis pericarp during maturation with a focus on chlorophyll degradation and flavonoid biosynthesis.
Proteomics of methyl jasmonate induced defense response in maize leaves against Asian corn borer.
Transcriptome characterization of three wild Chinese Vitis uncovers a large number of distinct disease related genes.
Mitogenomic phylogeny of the common long-tailed macaque (Macaca fascicularis fascicularis).
Genome-wide association study for flowering time, maturity dates and plant height in early maturing soybean (Glycine max) germplasm.
Construction of a virtual Mycobacterium tuberculosis consensus genome and its application to data from a next generation sequencer.
Prokaryotic assemblages and metagenomes in pelagic zones of the South China Sea.
Global gene expression profiling of brown to white adipose tissue transformation in sheep reveals novel transcriptional components linked to adipose remodeling.
A high density GBS map of bread wheat and its application for dissecting complex disease resistance traits.
PacBio-LITS: a large-insert targeted sequencing method for characterization of human disease-associated chromosomal structural variations.
Inorganic Arsenic-induced cellular transformation is coupled with genome wide changes in chromatin structure, transcriptome and splicing patterns.
Pistillody mutant reveals key insights into stamen and pistil development in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.).
Reviewer acknowledgement 2014.
Fatty acid composition of developing tree peony (Paeonia section Moutan DC.) seeds and transcriptome analysis during seed development.
Genome-wide expression analysis suggests a crucial role of dysregulation of matrix metalloproteinases pathway in undifferentiated thyroid carcinoma.
An inducible recA expression Bacillus subtilis genome vector for stable manipulation of large DNA fragments.
Spectrum of variations in dog-1/FANCJ and mdf-1/MAD1 defective Caenorhabditis elegans strains after long-term propagation.
The chloroplast genomes of Bryopsis plumosa and Tydemania expeditiones (Bryopsidales, Chlorophyta): compact genomes and genes of bacterial origin.
Messenger RNA sequencing and pathway analysis provide novel insights into the biological basis of chickens’ feed efficiency.
Transcriptomic analyses reveal species-specific light-induced anthocyanin biosynthesis in chrysanthemum.
Genome-wide analysis reveals population structure and selection in Chinese indigenous sheep breeds.
Identification of novel and salt-responsive miRNAs to explore miRNA-mediated regulatory network of salt stress response in radish (Raphanus sativus L.).
Genome wide comparative analysis of the effects of PRMT5 and PRMT4/CARM1 arginine methyltransferases on the Arabidopsis thaliana transcriptome.
Comparative transcriptome analysis reveals carbohydrate and lipid metabolism blocks in Brassica napus L. male sterility induced by the chemical hybridization agent monosulfuron ester sodium.
MicroRNA expression profiles from eggs of different qualities associated with post-ovulatory ageing in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss).
Mitochondrial DNA and the Y chromosome suggest the settlement of Madagascar by Indonesian sea nomad populations.
Natural variation of gene models in Drosophila melanogaster.
The dnd operon for DNA phosphorothioation modification system in Escherichia coli is located in diverse genomic islands.
The salinity tolerant poplar database (STPD): a comprehensive database for studying tree salt-tolerant adaption and poplar genomics.
Comparative transcriptome analyses on silk glands of six silkmoths imply the genetic basis of silk structure and coloration.
A genome-wide association study in catfish reveals the presence of functional hubs of related genes within QTLs for columnaris disease resistance.
Molecular cloning and expression analysis of WRKY transcription factor genes in Salvia miltiorrhiza.
Local hopping mobile DNA implicated in pseudogene formation and reductive evolution in an obligate cyanobacteria-plant symbiosis.
A genetic map of cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) with integrated physical mapping of immunity-related genes.
Characterizing homozygosity across United States, New Zealand and Australian Jersey cow and bull populations.
Ecological genomics in Xanthomonas: the nature of genetic adaptation with homologous recombination and host shifts.
Construction of a high density SNP linkage map of kelp (Saccharina japonica) by sequencing Taq I site associated DNA and mapping of a sex determining locus.
Genome-wide identification and characterization of MADS-box family genes related to organ development and stress resistance in Brassica rapa.
Ageing-associated changes in the human DNA methylome: genomic locations and effects on gene expression.
Global gene expression patterns of grass carp following compensatory growth.
Quality control of microbiota metagenomics by k-mer analysis.
Hsf and Hsp gene families in Populus: genome-wide identification, organization and correlated expression during development and in stress responses.
Characterization of the transcriptome of fast and slow muscle myotomal fibres in the pacu (Piaractus mesopotamicus).
NMDA receptor activation upstream of methyl farnesoate signaling for short day-induced male offspring production in the water flea, Daphnia pulex.
Highly diversified fungi are associated with the achlorophyllous orchid Gastrodia flavilabella.
Transcriptomic analysis of Siberian ginseng (Eleutherococcus senticosus) to discover genes involved in saponin biosynthesis.
Transcriptome analysis of cattle muscle identifies potential markers for skeletal muscle growth rate and major cell types.
Genome diversification within a clonal population of pandemic Vibrio parahaemolyticus seems to depend on the life circumstances of each individual bacteria.
Transcriptome differences between Cry1Ab resistant and susceptible strains of Asian corn borer.
Comprehensive molecular, genomic and phenotypic analysis of a major clone of Enterococcus faecalis MLST ST40.
Metagenomic analysis of the Rhinopithecus bieti fecal microbiome reveals a broad diversity of bacterial and glycoside hydrolase profiles related to lignocellulose degradation.
Whole genome sequencing of an ethnic Pathan (Pakhtun) from the north-west of Pakistan.
The central nervous system transcriptome of the weakly electric brown ghost knifefish (Apteronotus leptorhynchus): de novo assembly, annotation, and proteomics validation.
Pichia pastoris regulates its gene-specific response to different carbon sources at the transcriptional, rather than the translational, level.
Prospects and limits of marker imputation in quantitative genetic studies in European elite wheat (Triticum aestivum L.).
CodingQuarry: highly accurate hidden Markov model gene prediction in fungal genomes using RNA-seq transcripts.
Transcriptomic profiling of the salt-stress response in the halophyte Halogeton glomeratus.
A novel sex-determining QTL in Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus).
Learning-induced gene expression in the heads of two Nasonia species that differ in long-term memory formation.
Comparative genomic analysis of a multiple antimicrobial resistant enterotoxigenic E. coli O157 lineage from Australian pigs.
Transcript profiling of Populus tomentosa genes in normal, tension, and opposite wood by RNA-seq.
Combinatorial Conflicting Homozygosity (CCH) analysis enables the rapid identification of shared genomic regions in the presence of multiple phenocopies.
Sequencing the CHO DXB11 genome reveals regional variations in genomic stability and haploidy.
Limitations of variable number of tandem repeat typing identified through whole genome sequencing of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis on a national and herd level.
Transcriptome analysis of Panax vietnamensis var. fuscidicus discovers putative ocotillol-type ginsenosides biosynthesis genes and genetic markers.
Development and preliminary evaluation of a 90 K Axiom® SNP array for the allo-octoploid cultivated strawberry Fragaria × ananassa.
TILLING by sequencing to identify induced mutations in stress resistance genes of peanut (Arachis hypogaea).
Deregulation of sertoli and leydig cells function in patients with klinefelter syndrome as evidenced by testis transcriptome analysis.
Genome mining reveals unlocked bioactive potential of marine Gram-negative bacteria.
Analysis of RNA decay factor mediated RNA stability contributions on RNA abundance.
Divergences in gene repertoire among the reference Prevotella genomes derived from distinct body sites of human.
Characterization and expression profiling of glutathione S-transferases in the diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella (L.).
Small RNAs derived from tRNAs and rRNAs are highly enriched in exosomes from both old and new world Leishmania providing evidence for conserved exosomal RNA Packaging.
Integromics network meta-analysis on cardiac aging offers robust multi-layer modular signatures and reveals micronome synergism.
Retained duplicate genes in green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii tend to be stress responsive and experience frequent response gains.
GASS: genome structural annotation for Eukaryotes based on species similarity.
Whole-genome gene expression profiling revealed genes and pathways potentially involved in regulating interactions of soybean with cyst nematode (Heterodera glycines Ichinohe).
RNASeqBrowser: A genome browser for simultaneous visualization of raw strand specific RNAseq reads and UCSC genome browser custom tracks.
The recent escalation in strength of pyrethroid resistance in Anopheles coluzzi in West Africa is linked to increased expression of multiple gene families.
Factors to preserve CpG-rich sequences in methylated CpG islands.
ColoWeb: a resource for analysis of colocalization of genomic features.
The distribution and mutagenesis of short coding INDELs from 1,128 whole exomes.
Whole genome comparative analysis of transposable elements provides new insight into mechanisms of their inactivation in fungal genomes.
Algorithms for differential splicing detection using exon arrays: a comparative assessment.
VisualTE: a graphical interface for transposable element analysis at the genomic scale.
Genome comparison provides molecular insights into the phylogeny of the reassigned new genus Lysinibacillus.
Tissue-specific transcriptome assemblies of the marine medaka Oryzias melastigma and comparative analysis with the freshwater medaka Oryzias latipes.
Enrichment of inflammatory bowel disease and colorectal cancer risk variants in colon expression quantitative trait loci.
Horizontal transfer of a non-autonomous Helitron among insect and viral genomes.
REDHORSE-REcombination and Double crossover detection in Haploid Organisms using next-geneRation SEquencing data.
IPred - integrating ab initio and evidence based gene predictions to improve prediction accuracy.
Genomic insights on the ethno-history of the Maya and the ‘Ladinos’ from Guatemala.
Identifying multi-locus chromatin contacts in human cells using tethered multiple 3C.
Proteome mapping of epidermal growth factor induced hepatocellular carcinomas identifies novel cell metabolism targets and mitogen activated protein kinase signalling events.
Genetic variants in root architecture-related genes in a Glycine soja accession, a potential resource to improve cultivated soybean.
Comprehensive analysis of CCCH-type zinc finger family genes facilitates functional gene discovery and reflects recent allopolyploidization event in tetraploid switchgrass.
A novel Schistosoma japonicum endonuclease homologous to DNase II.
Comparative genome analysis of Prevotella intermedia strain isolated from infected root canal reveals features related to pathogenicity and adaptation.
RNA-seq analysis reveals the role of red light in resistance against Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 in tomato plants.
A genome-wide scan for signatures of directional selection in domesticated pigs.
Gibberellin-induced changes in the transcriptome of grapevine (Vitis labrusca × V. vinifera) cv. Kyoho flowers.
Genome-wide expression profiling and phenotypic evaluation of European maize inbreds at seedling stage in response to heat stress.
The genome sequence of Pseudoplusia includens single nucleopolyhedrovirus and an analysis of p26 gene evolution in the baculoviruses.
Genome-wide characterization of developmental stage- and tissue-specific transcription factors in wheat.
Predicting functional and regulatory divergence of a drug resistance transporter gene in the human malaria parasite.
Comparative analysis among the small RNA populations of source, sink and conductive tissues in two different plant-virus pathosystems.
Social odors conveying dominance and reproductive information induce rapid physiological and neuromolecular changes in a cichlid fish.
Pseudogenes transcribed in breast invasive carcinoma show subtype-specific expression and ceRNA potential.
Regulation of microRNAs miR-30a and miR-143 in cerebral vasculature after experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage in rats.
Genome-scale analysis reveals a role for NdgR in the thiol oxidative stress response in Streptomyces coelicolor.
Virus genome dynamics under different propagation pressures: reconstruction of whole genome haplotypes of west nile viruses from NGS data.
Genetic diversity and trait genomic prediction in a pea diversity panel.
The oak gene expression atlas: insights into Fagaceae genome evolution and the discovery of genes regulated during bud dormancy release.
Comparative transcriptome profiling of a rice line carrying Xa39 and its parents triggered by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae provides novel insights into the broad-spectrum hypersensitive response.
Precisely mapping a major gene conferring resistance to Hessian fly in bread wheat using genotyping-by-sequencing.
Genome-wide epistatic expression quantitative trait loci discovery in four human tissues reveals the importance of local chromosomal interactions governing gene expression.
High correlation between genotypes and phenotypes of environmental bacteria Comamonas testosteroni strains.
Transcriptome sequencing and analysis of the entomopathogenic fungus Hirsutella sinensis isolated from Ophiocordyceps sinensis.
Extrapolating histone marks across developmental stages, tissues, and species: an enhancer prediction case study.
Genomic correlates of recombination rate and its variability across eight recombination maps in the western honey bee (Apis mellifera L.).
Transcriptomic response to heat stress among ecologically divergent populations of redband trout.
Genome-wide analysis of DNA methylation in photoperiod- and thermo-sensitive male sterile rice Peiai 64S.
The germline of the malaria mosquito produces abundant miRNAs, endo-siRNAs, piRNAs and 29-nt small RNAs.
The mature anther-preferentially expressed genes are associated with pollen fertility, pollen germination and anther dehiscence in rice.
H2A.Z marks antisense promoters and has positive effects on antisense transcript levels in budding yeast.
Full genome SNP-based phylogenetic analysis reveals the origin and global spread of Brucella melitensis.
Transcriptome analysis of hen preadipocytes treated with an adipogenic cocktail (DMIOA) with or without 20(S)-hydroxylcholesterol.
RNA Seq analysis of the Eimeria tenella gametocyte transcriptome reveals clues about the molecular basis for sexual reproduction and oocyst biogenesis.
Optimized microRNA purification from TRIzol-treated plasma.
A comprehensive evaluation of ensembl, RefSeq, and UCSC annotations in the context of RNA-seq read mapping and gene quantification.
De novo assembly and transcriptome analysis of Atlantic salmon macrophage/dendritic-like TO cells following type I IFN treatment and Salmonid alphavirus subtype-3 infection.
Sequence and analysis of a whole genome from Kuwaiti population subgroup of Persian ancestry.
Identification of sex-linked SNP markers using RAD sequencing suggests ZW/ZZ sex determination in Pistacia vera L.
Modulating crossover positioning by introducing large structural changes in chromosomes.
Identification of three extra-chromosomal replicons in Leptospira pathogenic strain and development of new shuttle vectors.
Rapid identification and recovery of ENU-induced mutations with next-generation sequencing and Paired-End Low-Error analysis.
Induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neuronal cells from a sporadic Alzheimer’s disease donor as a model for investigating AD-associated gene regulatory networks.
Transcriptome analysis of thermophilic methylotrophic Bacillus methanolicus MGA3 using RNA-sequencing provides detailed insights into its previously uncharted transcriptional landscape.
Tracking the best reference genes for RT-qPCR data normalization in filamentous fungi.
Comparing Mycobacterium tuberculosis genomes using genome topology networks.
The evolutionary and functional diversity of classical and lesser-known cytoplasmic and organellar translational GTPases across the tree of life.
Human settlement history between Sunda and Sahul: a focus on East Timor (Timor-Leste) and the Pleistocenic mtDNA diversity.
Analysis of the genetic diversity of influenza A viruses using next-generation DNA sequencing.
Functional analysis of C1 family cysteine peptidases in the larval gut of Тenebrio molitor and Tribolium castaneum.
A systems genetics study of swine illustrates mechanisms underlying human phenotypic traits.
Species-specific duplications driving the recent expansion of NBS-LRR genes in five Rosaceae species.
De novo assembly and characterization of transcriptomes of early-stage fruit from two genotypes of Annona squamosa L. with contrast in seed number.
Simple regression for correcting ΔCt bias in RT-qPCR low-density array data normalization.
Next generation sequencing analysis reveals that the ribonucleases RNase II, RNase R and PNPase affect bacterial motility and biofilm formation in E. coli.
Transcriptome profiling of the dynamic life cycle of the scypohozoan jellyfish Aurelia aurita.
Comparative genome and transcriptome analyses of the social amoeba Acytostelium subglobosum that accomplishes multicellular development without germ-soma differentiation.
Genome-wide comparison of PU.1 and Spi-B binding sites in a mouse B lymphoma cell line.
Characterization of a novel RXR receptor in the salmon louse (Lepeophtheirus salmonis, Copepoda) regulating growth and female reproduction.
Genome-wide comparative analysis reveals human-mouse regulatory landscape and evolution.
Genome-wide survey and expression analysis of F-box genes in chickpea.
Transcriptome analysis of cyst formation in Rhodospirillum centenum reveals large global changes in expression during cyst development.
Asexual expansion of Toxoplasma gondii merozoites is distinct from tachyzoites and entails expression of non-overlapping gene families to attach, invade, and replicate within feline enterocytes.
Involvement of a citrus meiotic recombination TTC-repeat motif in the formation of gross deletions generated by ionizing radiation and MULE activation.
Optimal assembly strategies of transcriptome related to ploidies of eukaryotic organisms.
A search for protein biomarkers links olfactory signal transduction to social immunity.
Defining the gene repertoire and spatiotemporal expression profiles of adhesion G protein-coupled receptors in zebrafish.
Transcriptome analysis of northern elephant seal (Mirounga angustirostris) muscle tissue provides a novel molecular resource and physiological insights.
Genome-wide survey and analysis of microsatellites in giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca), with a focus on the applications of a novel microsatellite marker system.
Identification of new members of the MAPK gene family in plants shows diverse conserved domains and novel activation loop variants.
Identification of radiation-induced aberrant hypomethylation in colon cancer.
Fast forward genetics to identify mutations causing a high light tolerant phenotype in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii by whole-genome-sequencing.
Comparative analysis of the silk gland transcriptomes between the domestic and wild silkworms.
Transcriptomic analysis of hepatic responses to testosterone deficiency in miniature pigs fed a high-cholesterol diet.
Development of chromosome-specific markers with high polymorphism for allotetraploid cotton based on genome-wide characterization of simple sequence repeats in diploid cottons (Gossypium arboreum L. and Gossypium raimondii Ulbrich).
Deep RNA sequencing reveals a high frequency of alternative splicing events in the fungus Trichoderma longibrachiatum.
A de novo transcriptome of the noble scallop, Chlamys nobilis, focusing on mining transcripts for carotenoid-based coloration.
Comprehensive insights into transcriptional adaptation of intracellular mycobacteria by microbe-enriched dual RNA sequencing.
Sampled ensemble neutrality as a feature to classify potential structured RNAs.
Genome-wide analysis of bHLH transcription factor and involvement in the infection by yellow leaf curl virus in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum).
Characterization of tissue-specific differential DNA methylation suggests distinct modes of positive and negative gene expression regulation.
Gene coexpression networks reveal key drivers of phenotypic divergence in porcine muscle.
Amplification of pico-scale DNA mediated by bacterial carrier DNA for small-cell-number transcription factor ChIP-seq.
Integrating transcriptomics and proteomics to show that tanshinone IIA suppresses cell growth by blocking glucose metabolism in gastric cancer cells.
Comparative mitochondrial genomics and phylogenetic relationships of the Crossoptilon species (Phasianidae, Galliformes).
CLIPdb: a CLIP-seq database for protein-RNA interactions.
miR-503 represses human cell proliferation and directly targets the oncogene DDHD2 by non-canonical target pairing.
Spatial features for Escherichia coli genome organization.
Genomic and phenotypic insights into the ecology of Arthrobacter from Antarctic soils.
Genome-wide association analysis of seedling root development in maize (Zea mays L.).
Dispersal of an ancient retroposon in the TP53 promoter of Bovidae: phylogeny, novel mechanisms, and potential implications for cow milk persistency.
Genome analysis of Flaviramulus ichthyoenteri Th78T in the family Flavobacteriaceae: insights into its quorum quenching property and potential roles in fish intestine.
Splicing landscape of the eight collaborative cross founder strains.
Comparative whole-genome analyses of selection marker–free rice-based cholera toxin B-subunit vaccine lines and wild-type lines.
Using QTL mapping to investigate the relationships between abiotic stress tolerance (drought and salinity) and agronomic and physiological traits.
Expression and regulation of long noncoding RNAs in TLR4 signaling in mouse macrophages.
Mixture SNPs effect on phenotype in genome-wide association studies.
Complete genome sequence of the Clostridium difficile laboratory strain 630Δerm reveals differences from strain 630, including translocation of the mobile element CTn5.
Genome-wide analysis of Dof family transcription factors and their responses to abiotic stresses in Chinese cabbage.
Global transcriptomic profiling demonstrates induction of oxidative stress and of compensatory cellular stress responses in brown trout exposed to glyphosate and Roundup.
A systems biology approach toward understanding seed composition in soybean.
Genome-wide analysis of transcription factor binding sites and their characteristic DNA structures.
A pipeline for completing bacterial genomes using in silico and wet lab approaches.
PNImodeler: web server for inferring protein-binding nucleotides from sequence data.
Similarity evaluation of DNA sequences based on frequent patterns and entropy.
Mining the bladder cancer-associated genes by an integrated strategy for the construction and analysis of differential co-expression networks.
Clustering PPI data by combining FA and SHC method.
LncRNA2Function: a comprehensive resource for functional investigation of human lncRNAs based on RNA-seq data.
Identifying essential proteins from active PPI networks constructed with dynamic gene expression.
Genomic and transcriptomic analysis of the endophytic fungus Pestalotiopsis fici reveals its lifestyle and high potential for synthesis of natural products.
Re-annotation of the woodland strawberry (Fragaria vesca) genome.
Age dependent changes in the LPS induced transcriptome of bovine dermal fibroblasts occurs without major changes in the methylome.
Transcriptome changes in rice (Oryza sativa L.) in response to high night temperature stress at the early milky stage.
Genome-wide analysis of the R2R3-MYB transcription factor genes in Chinese cabbage (Brassica rapa ssp. pekinensis) reveals their stress and hormone responsive patterns.
Genome-wide immunity studies in the rabbit: transcriptome variations in peripheral blood mononuclear cells after in vitro stimulation by LPS or PMA-Ionomycin.
Emergence of differentially regulated pathways associated with the development of regional specificity in chicken skin.
Elite athletes’ genetic predisposition for altered risk of complex metabolic traits.
Transcriptomic characterisation and genomic glimps into the toxigenic dinoflagellate Azadinium spinosum, with emphasis on polykeitde synthase genes.
Genome-wide high-resolution mapping of DNA methylation identifies epigenetic variation across embryo and endosperm in Maize (Zea may).
High-throughput RNA sequencing reveals the effects of 2,2′,4,4′ -tetrabromodiphenyl ether on retina and bone development of zebrafish larvae.
Impacts of low coverage depths and post-mortem DNA damage on variant calling: a simulation study.
The developmental transcriptome of the synanthropic fly Chrysomya megacephala and insights into olfactory proteins.
Overlapping mouse subcongenic strains successfully separate two linked body fat QTL on distal MMU 2.
High-resolution genetic mapping of allelic variants associated with cell wall chemistry in Populus.
Joint eQTL assessment of whole blood and dura mater tissue from individuals with Chiari type I malformation.
Host-specific transcriptomic pattern of Trichoderma virens during interaction with maize or tomato roots.
Plasmids are vectors for redundant chromosomal genes in the Bacillus cereus group.
Use of targeted SNP selection for an improved anchoring of the melon (Cucumis melo L.) scaffold genome assembly.
Genome-wide identification and characterization of the bHLH gene family in tomato.
Cetaceans evolution: insights from the genome sequences of common minke whales.
RNA-Seq analysis and transcriptome assembly for blackberry (Rubus sp. Var. Lochness) fruit.
Transcriptome analysis reveals in vitro cultured Withania somnifera leaf and root tissues as a promising source for targeted withanolide biosynthesis.
Evaluation of methods to purify virus-like particles for metagenomic sequencing of intestinal viromes.
Integrated transcriptome catalogue and organ-specific profiling of gene expression in fertile garlic (Allium sativum L.).
A medium density genetic map and QTL for behavioral and production traits in Japanese quail.
Transcriptome analysis of food habit transition from carnivory to herbivory in a typical vertebrate herbivore, grass carp Ctenopharyngodon idella.
IRcall and IRclassifier: two methods for flexible detection of intron retention events from RNA-Seq data.
A linear time algorithm for detecting long genomic regions enriched with a specific combination of epigenetic states.
HLA-VBSeq: accurate HLA typing at full resolution from whole-genome sequencing data.
EXPath: a database of comparative expression analysis inferring metabolic pathways for plants.
Genome-wide association data classification and SNPs selection using two-stage quality-based Random Forests.
Integrating experimental and literature protein-protein interaction data for protein complex prediction.
Pinpointing disease genes through phenomic and genomic data fusion.
Discovering monotonic stemness marker genes from time-series stem cell microarray data.
Accurate inference of isoforms from multiple sample RNA-Seq data.
Mechanistic analysis elucidating the relationship between Lys96 mutation in Mycobacterium tuberculosis pyrazinamidase enzyme and pyrazinamide susceptibility.
Inferring the global structure of chromosomes from structural variations.
Integrated analyses to reconstruct microRNA-mediated regulatory networks in mouse liver using high-throughput profiling.
Connecting rules from paired miRNA and mRNA expression data sets of HCV patients to detect both inverse and positive regulatory relationships.
IIIDB: a database for isoform-isoform interactions and isoform network modules.
MixClone: a mixture model for inferring tumor subclonal populations.
Use of Both Cumulus Cells’ Transcriptomic Markers and Zona Pellucida Birefringence to Select Developmentally Competent Oocytes in Human Assisted Reproductive Technologies.
Exome Sequencing of Normal and Isogenic Transformed Human Colonic Epithelial Cells (HCECs) Reveals Novel Genes Potentially Involved in the Early Stages of Colorectal Tumorigenesis.
Comparison of microarray expression profiles between follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinomas and follicular adenomas of the thyroid.
Effect of BRAF mutational status on expression profiles in conventional papillary thyroid carcinomas.
Next Generation Sequencing of Acute Myeloid Leukemia: Influencing Prognosis.
Underlying Data for Sequencing the Mitochondrial Genome with the Massively Parallel Sequencing Platform Ion Torrent™ PGM™.
Characterization of familial breast cancer in Saudi Arabia.
A machine learning heuristic to identify biologically relevant and minimal biomarker panels from omics data.
Phylogenetic placement of metagenomic reads using the minimum evolution principle.
Whole-exome analysis of foetal autopsy tissue reveals a frameshift mutation in OBSL1, consistent with a diagnosis of 3-M Syndrome.
Transcriptomics profiling study of breast cancer from Kingdom of Saudi Arabia revealed altered expression of Adiponectin and Fatty Acid Binding Protein4: Is lipid metabolism associated with breast cancer?
Genome wide analysis of novel copy number variations duplications/deletions of different epileptic patients in Saudi Arabia.
Distinct serum metabolomics profiles associated with malignant progression in the KrasG12D mouse model of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
Uncovering the novel characteristics of Asian honey bee, Apis cerana, by whole genome sequencing.
Identification of horizontally transferred genes in the genus Colletotrichum reveals a steady tempo of bacterial to fungal gene transfer.
