Multi-label multi-instance transfer learning for simultaneous reconstruction and cross-talk modeling of multiple human signaling pathways.
BigQ: a NoSQL based framework to handle genomic variants in i2b2.
Pathosphere.org: pathogen detection and characterization through a web-based, open source informatics platform.
Treelink: data integration, clustering and visualization of phylogenetic trees.
MixChIP: a probabilistic method for cell type specific protein-DNA binding analysis.
Unsupervised image segmentation for microarray spots with irregular contours and inner holes.
GIW and InCoB are advancing bioinformatics in the Asia-Pacific.
On the distribution of cycles and paths in multichromosomal breakpoint graphs and the expected value of rearrangement distance.
Algebraic Dynamic Programming over general data structures.
Sorting by weighted inversions considering length and symmetry.
FluxCTTX: A LIMS-based tool for management and analysis of cytotoxicity assays data.
Evolution of genes neighborhood within reconciled phylogenies: an ensemble approach.
An innovative electronic health records system for rare and complex diseases.
NERI: network-medicine based integrative approach for disease gene prioritization by relative importance.
Structural studies on molecular mechanisms of Nelfinavir resistance caused by non-active site mutation V77I in HIV-1 protease.
The impact of sequence length and number of sequences on promoter prediction performance.
Classification epitopes in groups based on their protein family.
Erratum to: Efficient experimental design for uncertainty reduction in gene regulatory networks.
MRMPlus: an open source quality control and assessment tool for SRM/MRM assay development.
Parameterizing sequence alignment with an explicit evolutionary model.
Penalized weighted low-rank approximation for robust recovery of recurrent copy number variations.
Bioinformatics approach to predict target genes for dysregulated microRNAs in hepatocellular carcinoma: study on a chemically-induced HCC mouse model.
MIA: Mutual Information Analyzer, a graphic user interface program that calculates entropy, vertical and horizontal mutual information of molecular sequence sets.
Analysis of genomic rearrangements by using the Burrows-Wheeler transform of short-read data.
Privacy-preserving search for chemical compound databases.
Positive-unlabeled learning for the prediction of conformational B-cell epitopes.
Condensing Raman spectrum for single-cell phenotype analysis.
An adaptive genetic algorithm for selection of blood-based biomarkers for prediction of Alzheimer's disease progression.
Light-RCV: a lightweight read coverage viewer for next generation sequencing data.
Principal component analysis for designed experiments.
Automated identification of copepods using digital image processing and artificial neural network.
Accurate reconstruction of viral quasispecies spectra through improved estimation of strain richness.
Prediction of neddylation sites from protein sequences and sequence-derived properties.
PCTFPeval: a web tool for benchmarking newly developed algorithms for predicting cooperative transcription factor pairs in yeast.
Identification of aberrant gene expression associated with aberrant promoter methylation in primordial germ cells between E13 and E16 rat F3 generation vinclozolin lineage.
Characterizing informative sequence descriptors and predicting binding affinities of heterodimeric protein complexes.
Obtaining long 16S rDNA sequences using multiple primers and its application on dioxin-containing samples.
Discrete structural features among interface residue-level classes.
A two-layered machine learning method to identify protein O-GlcNAcylation sites with O-GlcNAc transferase substrate motifs.
Structural vs. functional mechanisms of duplicate gene loss following whole genome doubling.
How genome complexity can explain the difficulty of aligning reads to genomes.
ORBiT: Oak Ridge biosurveillance toolkit for public health dynamics.
Signal reachability facilitates characterization of probabilistic signaling networks.
Automated parameter estimation for biological models using Bayesian statistical model checking.
Identifying representative drug resistant mutants of HIV.
EC: an efficient error correction algorithm for short reads.
A computational method for drug repositioning using publicly available gene expression data.
In search of perfect reads.
SpliceJumper: a classification-based approach for calling splicing junctions from RNA-seq data.
Rare variants analysis using penalization methods for whole genome sequence data.
M3-S: a genotype calling method incorporating information from samples with known genotypes.
DHOEM: a statistical simulation software for simulating new markers in real SNP marker data.
Accurate prediction of nuclear receptors with conjoint triad feature.
GigaTON: an extensive publicly searchable database providing a new reference transcriptome in the pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas.
Scalable analysis of Big pathology image data cohorts using efficient methods and high-performance computing strategies.
PC-TraFF: identification of potentially collaborating transcription factors using pointwise mutual information.
High-order dynamic Bayesian Network learning with hidden common causes for causal gene regulatory network.
Fully automated registration of vibrational microspectroscopic images in histologically stained tissue sections.
Reads2Type: a web application for rapid microbial taxonomy identification.
Analysis of in vivo single cell behavior by high throughput, human-in-the-loop segmentation of three-dimensional images.
Coev-web: a web platform designed to simulate and evaluate coevolving positions along a phylogenetic tree.
MSAIndelFR: a scheme for multiple protein sequence alignment using information on indel flanking regions.
FoCo: a simple and robust quantification algorithm of nuclear foci.
An heuristic filtering tool to identify phenotype-associated genetic variants applied to human intellectual disability and canine coat colors.
An affinity-structure database of helix-turn-helix: DNA complexes with a universal coordinate system.
antaRNA – Multi-objective inverse folding of pseudoknot RNA using ant-colony optimization.
Proposal of supervised data analysis strategy of plasma miRNAs from hybridisation array data with an application to assess hemolysis-related deregulation.
DiffLogo: a comparative visualization of sequence motifs.
misFinder: identify mis-assemblies in an unbiased manner using reference and paired-end reads.
A fast method for calculating reliable event supports in tree reconciliations via Pareto optimality.
A new network representation of the metabolism to detect chemical transformation modules.
An investigation of causes of false positive single nucleotide polymorphisms using simulated reads from a small eukaryote genome.
Two molecular measures of relatedness based on haplotype sharing.
A large scale prediction of bacteriocin gene blocks suggests a wide functional spectrum for bacteriocins.
A census of α-helical membrane proteins in double-stranded DNA viruses infecting bacteria and archaea.
QQ-SNV: single nucleotide variant detection at low frequency by comparing the quality quantiles.
TOGGLE: toolbox for generic NGS analyses.
From raw data to data-analysis for magnetic resonance spectroscopy – the missing link: jMRUI2XML.
AlignWise: a tool for identifying protein-coding sequence and correcting frame-shifts.
Sequence information gain based motif analysis.
Inferring intra-motif dependencies of DNA binding sites from ChIP-seq data.
Reconstruction of 3D genome architecture via a two-stage algorithm.
Practical impacts of genomic data “cleaning” on biological discovery using surrogate variable analysis.
Erratum to: MONALISA for stochastic simulations of Petri net models of biochemical systems.
miRA: adaptable novel miRNA identification in plants using small RNA sequencing data.
ODTbrain: a Python library for full-view, dense diffraction tomography.
Joint use of over- and under-sampling techniques and cross-validation for the development and assessment of prediction models.
Predicting drug side effects by multi-label learning and ensemble learning.
CellProfiler Tracer: exploring and validating high-throughput, time-lapse microscopy image data.
BRANE Cut: biologically-related a priori network enhancement with graph cuts for gene regulatory network inference.
Fizzy: feature subset selection for metagenomics.
Evaluation of shotgun metagenomics sequence classification methods using in silico and in vitro simulated communities.
Estimation of evolutionary parameters using short, random and partial sequences from mixed samples of anonymous individuals.
Iterative sub-network component analysis enables reconstruction of large scale genetic networks.
Evaluation of methods for differential expression analysis on multi-group RNA-seq count data.
Inferring plant microRNA functional similarity using a weighted protein-protein interaction network.
An assessment of catalytic residue 3D ensembles for the prediction of enzyme function.
BitTorious volunteer: server-side extensions for centrally-managed volunteer storage in BitTorrent swarms.
The Gap Procedure: for the identification of phylogenetic clusters in HIV-1 sequence data.
Revisiting operons: an analysis of the landscape of transcriptional units in E. coli.
tDRmapper: challenges and solutions to mapping, naming, and quantifying tRNA-derived RNAs from human small RNA-sequencing data.
A Lattice-Boltzmann scheme for the simulation of diffusion in intracellular crowded systems.
Use and mis-use of supplementary material in science publications.
Cnidaria: fast, reference-free clustering of raw and assembled genome and transcriptome NGS data.
Application of the EVEX resource to event extraction and network construction: Shared Task entry and result analysis.
Optimizing graph-based patterns to extract biomedical events from the literature.
TEES 2.2: Biomedical Event Extraction for Diverse Corpora.
Sieve-based relation extraction of gene regulatory networks from biological literature.
HMMvar-func: a new method for predicting the functional outcome of genetic variants.
ToPASeq: an R package for topology-based pathway analysis of microarray and RNA-Seq data.
Peak shape clustering reveals biological insights.
Comparing the normalization methods for the differential analysis of Illumina high-throughput RNA-Seq data.
Extended notions of sign consistency to relate experimental data to signaling and regulatory network topologies.
Novel gene sets improve set-level classification of prokaryotic gene expression data.
GOTA: GO term annotation of biomedical literature.
CytoSpectre: a tool for spectral analysis of oriented structures on cellular and subcellular levels.
Neuron anatomy structure reconstruction based on a sliding filter.
DiSNPindel: improved intra-individual SNP and InDel detection in direct amplicon sequencing of a diploid.
QCScreen: a software tool for data quality control in LC-HRMS based metabolomics.
Validation and quality assurance for genome browser database exports.
Synaptic plasticity in infralimbic cortex mediates socially-acquired nicotine self-administration.
An automated resource for enhanced differential analysis.
Efficient identification of mutations that potentially confer treatment resistance through computational derivation.
Time course transcriptome data analysis for in vitro modeling of dilated cardiomyopathy using patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells.
Population structure analysis on 2504 individuals across 26 ancestries using bioinformatics approaches.
Convex-hull voting method on a large data set.
Practicality of identifying mitochondria variants from exome and RNAseq data.
Multi-scale study of normal aging predicts novel late-onset Alzheimer's disease risk variants.
Transcriptome analysis of breast cancer in African American women.
Using large public data repositories to discover novel genetic mutations with prospective links to melanoma.
Metabolomics data analysis and missing value issues with application to infarcted mouse hearts.
Dunn Index Bootstrap (DIBS): A procedure to empirically select a cluster analysis method that identifies biologically and clinically relevant molecular disease subgroups.
SGDriver: a novel structural genomics-based approach to prioritize cancer related and potentially druggable somatic mutations.
Proceedings of the Fourteenth Annual UT- KBRIN Bioinformatics Summit 2015.
Development of a literature informed Bayesian machine learning method for feature extraction and classification.
A linear model for predicting performance of short-read aligners using genome complexity.
Which methods to choose to correct cell types in genome-scale blood-derived DNA methylation data?
Alignment-free methods for metagenomic profiling.
Analysis of sleep traits in knockout mice from the large-scale KOMP2 population using a non-invasive, high-throughput piezoelectric system.
An iterative workflow for creating biomedical visualizations using Inkscape and D3.js.
Improving variant calling by incorporating known genetic variants into read alignment.
AlloPred: prediction of allosteric pockets on proteins using normal mode perturbation analysis.
PDB-Explorer: a web-based interactive map of the protein data bank in shape space.
Iterative reconstruction of three-dimensional models of human chromosomes from chromosomal contact data.
Whole genome SNP genotype piecemeal imputation.
Phylogenomics and sequence-structure-function relationships in the GmrSD family of Type IV restriction enzymes.
A large-scale conformation sampling and evaluation server for protein tertiary structure prediction and its assessment in CASP11.
Comparative study on gene set and pathway topology-based enrichment methods.
A straightforward method to compute average stochastic oscillations from data samples.
Improving RNA-Seq expression estimation by modeling isoform- and exon-specific read sequencing rate.
Survey statistics of automated segmentations applied to optical imaging of mammalian cells.
cnvCurator: an interactive visualization and editing tool for somatic copy number variations.
Estimating cumulative pathway effects on risk for age-related macular degeneration using mixed linear models.
An automated real-time integration and interoperability framework for bioinformatics.
Indexing a protein-protein interaction network expedites network alignment.
Differential analysis of biological networks.
SPINGO: a rapid species-classifier for microbial amplicon sequences.
Sequence specificity between interacting and non-interacting homologs identifies interface residues – a homodimer and monomer use case.
DectICO: an alignment-free supervised metagenomic classification method based on feature extraction and dynamic selection.
Accelerating the Smith-Waterman algorithm with interpair pruning and band optimization for the all-pairs comparison of base sequences.
DECIPHER: harnessing local sequence context to improve protein multiple sequence alignment.
Mass-Up: an all-in-one open software application for MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry knowledge discovery.
SCExV: a webtool for the analysis and visualisation of single cell qRT-PCR data.
A computer simulation model of Wolbachia invasion for disease vector population modification.
Interlog protein network: an evolutionary benchmark of protein interaction networks for the evaluation of clustering algorithms.
Event inference in multidomain families with phylogenetic reconciliation.
Prediction of microbial phenotypes based on comparative genomics.
Exact approaches for scaffolding.
Probabilistic modeling of the evolution of gene synteny within reconciled phylogenies.
Sampling and counting genome rearrangement scenarios.
Moments of genome evolution by Double Cut-and-Join.
Reconstructing a SuperGeneTree minimizing reconciliation.
Reconstruction of ancestral gene orders using intermediate genomes.
Segmental HOG: new descriptor for glomerulus detection in kidney microscopy image.
NetBenchmark: a bioconductor package for reproducible benchmarks of gene regulatory network inference.
VEGAWES: variational segmentation on whole exome sequencing for copy number detection.
methylPipe and compEpiTools: a suite of R packages for the integrative analysis of epigenomics data.
PROKARYO: an illustrative and interactive computational model of the lactose operon in the bacterium Escherichia coli.
Label noise in subtype discrimination of class C G protein-coupled receptors: A systematic approach to the analysis of classification errors.
CATCHing putative causative variants in consanguineous families.
A Bayesian approach for inducing sparsity in generalized linear models with multi-category response.
A heuristic approach to determine an appropriate number of topics in topic modeling.
Detrimental effects of duplicate reads and low complexity regions on RNA- and ChIP-seq data.
Computational identification of genetic subnetwork modules associated with maize defense response to Fusarium verticillioides.
Understanding and predicting binding between human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) and peptides by network analysis.
An adverse event capture and management system for cancer studies.
Enhancing cancer clonality analysis with integrative genomics.
Global multiple protein-protein interaction network alignment by combining pairwise network alignments.
DMAP: a connectivity map database to enable identification of novel drug repositioning candidates.
Efficient experimental design for uncertainty reduction in gene regulatory networks.
Proceedings of the 2015 MidSouth Computational Biology and Bioinformatics Society (MCBIOS) Conference.
Density-based parallel skin lesion border detection with webCL.
Dynamical modeling of uncertain interaction-based genomic networks.
Systematic noise degrades gene co-expression signals but can be corrected.
2D and 3D similarity landscape analysis identifies PARP as a novel off-target for the drug Vatalanib.
htsint: a Python library for sequencing pipelines that combines data through gene set generation.
Inference of regulatory networks with a convergence improved MCMC sampler.
Subtype prediction in pediatric acute myeloid leukemia: classification using differential network rank conservation revisited.
Group-based variant calling leveraging next-generation supercomputing for large-scale whole-genome sequencing studies.
ATGme: Open-source web application for rare codon identification and custom DNA sequence optimization.
Boosting for high-dimensional two-class prediction.
Statistical significance approximation in local trend analysis of high-throughput time-series data using the theory of Markov chains.
Phylodynamic reconstruction of the spatiotemporal transmission and demographic history of coxsackievirus B2.
Reconstruction of novel transcription factor regulons through inference of their binding sites.
Lab Retriever: a software tool for calculating likelihood ratios incorporating a probability of drop-out for forensic DNA profiles.
Genome-wide prediction of prokaryotic two-component system networks using a sequence-based meta-predictor.
Phylogenetic network analysis as a parsimony optimization problem.
SMRT sequencing only de novo assembly of the sugar beet (Beta vulgaris) chloroplast genome.
mAPKL: R/ Bioconductor package for detecting gene exemplars and revealing their characteristics.
A weighting approach for judging the effect of patient strata on high-dimensional risk prediction signatures.
A methodology for exploring biomarker – phenotype associations: application to flow cytometry data and systemic sclerosis clinical manifestations.
Hybrid-Lambda: simulation of multiple merger and Kingman gene genealogies in species networks and species trees.
Finite mixture clustering of human tissues with different levels of IGF-1 splice variants mRNA transcripts.
Development and validation of an epitope prediction tool for swine (PigMatrix) based on the pocket profile method.
Reference-free compression of high throughput sequencing data with a probabilistic de Bruijn graph.
Seq-ing improved gene expression estimates from microarrays using machine learning.
Statistical analysis of a Bayesian classifier based on the expression of miRNAs.
CoSREM: a graph mining algorithm for the discovery of combinatorial splicing regulatory elements.
Enabling network inference methods to handle missing data and outliers.
Multi-objective optimization for RNA design with multiple target secondary structures.
A reverse-engineering approach to dissect post-translational modulators of transcription factor’s activity from transcriptional data.
HiCdat: a fast and easy-to-use Hi-C data analysis tool.
WiseScaffolder: an algorithm for the semi-automatic scaffolding of Next Generation Sequencing data.
EMSAR: estimation of transcript abundance from RNA-seq data by mappability-based segmentation and reclustering.
Scientific workflow optimization for improved peptide and protein identification.
SFESA: a web server for pairwise alignment refinement by secondary structure shifts.
CompGO: an R package for comparing and visualizing Gene Ontology enrichment differences between DNA binding experiments.
New in silico approach to assessing RNA secondary structures with non-canonical base pairs.
Erratum to: Evaluation of BLAST-based edge-weighting metrics used for homology inference with the Markov Clustering algorithm.
Quantitative gene set analysis generalized for repeated measures, confounder adjustment, and continuous covariates.
Prior knowledge driven Granger causality analysis on gene regulatory network discovery.
Predicting protein function via downward random walks on a gene ontology.
GelJ – a tool for analyzing DNA fingerprint gel images.
Multiscale modeling of mucosal immune responses.
Protein complex detection in PPI networks based on data integration and supervised learning method.
Dynamic identifying protein functional modules based on adaptive density modularity in protein-protein interaction networks.
Ensemble learning for prediction of the bioactivity capacity of herbal medicines from chromatographic fingerprints.
Multi-location gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial protein subcellular localization using gene ontology and multi-label classifier ensemble.
Coevolutionary analyses require phylogenetically deep alignments and better null models to accurately detect inter-protein contacts within and between species.
OD-seq: outlier detection in multiple sequence alignments.
Automatically visualise and analyse data on pathways using PathVisioRPC from any programming environment.
TMalphaDB and TMbetaDB: web servers to study the structural role of sequence motifs in α-helix and β-barrel domains of membrane proteins.
POPE: post optimization posterior evaluation of likelihood free models.
Reliable scaling of position weight matrices for binding strength comparisons between transcription factors.
A cascade computer model for mocrobicide diffusivity from mucoadhesive formulations.
A convex formulation for joint RNA isoform detection and quantification from multiple RNA-seq samples.
MVDA: a multi-view genomic data integration methodology.
Efficient test for nonlinear dependence of two continuous variables.
SIMAT: GC-SIM-MS data analysis tool.
diffHic: a Bioconductor package to detect differential genomic interactions in Hi-C data.
SW1PerS: Sliding windows and 1-persistence scoring; discovering periodicity in gene expression time series data.
Amplitude spectrum distance: measuring the global shape divergence of protein fragments.
Robust sequence alignment using evolutionary rates coupled with an amino acid substitution matrix.
Epiviz: a view inside the design of an integrated visual analysis software for genomics.
VisRseq: R-based visual framework for analysis of sequencing data.
Physically-based in silico light sheet microscopy for visualizing fluorescent brain models.
Visual parameter optimisation for biomedical image processing.
BactoGeNIE: a large-scale comparative genome visualization for big displays.
Integrated visual analysis of protein structures, sequences, and feature data.
Pan-Tetris: an interactive visualisation for Pan-genomes.
GRAPHIE: graph based histology image explorer.
XCluSim: a visual analytics tool for interactively comparing multiple clustering results of bioinformatics data.
Highlights from the 5th Symposium on Biological Data Visualization: Part 1.
A simplicial complex-based approach to unmixing tumor progression data.
MultiSETTER: web server for multiple RNA structure comparison.
leBIBIQBPP: a set of databases and a webtool for automatic phylogenetic analysis of prokaryotic sequences.
ImmunExplorer (IMEX): a software framework for diversity and clonality analyses of immunoglobulins and T cell receptors on the basis of IMGT/HighV-QUEST preprocessed NGS data.
Breaking the computational barriers of pairwise genome comparison.
RNA-binding residues prediction using structural features.
Automated interpretation of 3D laserscanned point clouds for plant organ segmentation.
InteMAP: Integrated metagenomic assembly pipeline for NGS short reads.
Comparison of data mining and allometric model in estimation of tree biomass.
An investigation into inter- and intragenomic variations of graphic genomic signatures.
Confident difference criterion: a new Bayesian differentially expressed gene selection algorithm with applications.
HaploPOP: a software that improves population assignment by combining markers into haplotypes.
Simulated unbound structures for benchmarking of protein docking in the Dockground resource.
Erratum to: Improving protein order-disorder classification using charge-hydropathy plots.
SuRankCo: supervised ranking of contigs in de novo assemblies.
Comparison of phosphorylation patterns across eukaryotes by discriminative N-gram analysis.
Equalizer reduces SNP bias in Affymetrix microarrays.
Computing all hybridization networks for multiple binary phylogenetic input trees.
SpirPro: A Spirulina proteome database and web-based tools for the analysis of protein-protein interactions at the metabolic level in Spirulina (Arthrospira) platensis C1.
Inferring 3D chromatin structure using a multiscale approach based on quaternions.
Evaluation of variant detection software for pooled next-generation sequence data.
Odintifier - A computational method for identifying insertions of organellar origin from modern and ancient high-throughput sequencing data based on haplotype phasing.
Mapping side chain interactions at protein helix termini.
Sealer: a scalable gap-closing application for finishing draft genomes.
Object-based representation and analysis of light and electron microscopic volume data using Blender.
GESPA: classifying nsSNPs to predict disease association.
Red: an intelligent, rapid, accurate tool for detecting repeats de-novo on the genomic scale.
Knowledge transfer via classification rules using functional mapping for integrative modeling of gene expression data.
Distribution Analyzer, a methodology for identifying and clustering outlier conditions from single-cell distributions, and its application to a Nanog reporter RNAi screen.
QoRTs: a comprehensive toolset for quality control and data processing of RNA-Seq experiments.
Joint haplotype assembly and genotype calling via sequential Monte Carlo algorithm.
groHMM: a computational tool for identifying unannotated and cell type-specific transcription units from global run-on sequencing data.
Epitopemap: a web application for integrated whole proteome epitope prediction.
Extending the evaluation of Genia Event task toward knowledge base construction and comparison to Gene Regulation Ontology task.
Overview of the Cancer Genetics and Pathway Curation tasks of BioNLP Shared Task 2013.
Extracting biomedical events from pairs of text entities.
Detection and categorization of bacteria habitats using shallow linguistic analysis.
Semi-supervised Learning for the BioNLP Gene Regulation Network.
Adaptable, high recall, event extraction system with minimal configuration.
The contribution of co-reference resolution to supervised relation detection between bacteria and biotopes entities.
Overview of the gene regulation network and the bacteria biotope tasks in BioNLP'13 shared task.
BSPAT: a fast online tool for DNA methylation co-occurrence pattern analysis based on high-throughput bisulfite sequencing data.
Optimal combination of feature selection and classification via local hyperplane based learning strategy.
An evaluation of statistical methods for DNA methylation microarray data analysis.
Topological characterization of neuronal arbor morphology via sequence representation: I - motif analysis.
MONALISA for stochastic simulations of Petri net models of biochemical systems.
Evaluation of BLAST-based edge-weighting metrics used for homology inference with the Markov Clustering algorithm.
Machine learning approach for pooled DNA sample calibration.
Deciding when to stop: efficient experimentation to learn to predict drug-target interactions.
VISA - Vector Integration Site Analysis server: a web-based server to rapidly identify retroviral integration sites from next-generation sequencing.
The unifrac significance test is sensitive to tree topology.
PredSTP: a highly accurate SVM based model to predict sequential cystine stabilized peptides.
Topological characterization of neuronal arbor morphology via sequence representation: II - global alignment.
GPCRtm: An amino acid substitution matrix for the transmembrane region of class A G Protein-Coupled Receptors.
MetaDiff: differential isoform expression analysis using random-effects meta-regression.
Capturing coevolutionary signals inrepeat proteins.
YBYRÁ facilitates comparison of large phylogenetic trees.
Comparing K-mer based methods for improved classification of 16S sequences.
BioMaS: a modular pipeline for Bioinformatic analysis of Metagenomic AmpliconS.
Error correction and statistical analyses for intra-host comparisons of feline immunodeficiency virus diversity from high-throughput sequencing data.
TMFoldRec: a statistical potential-based transmembrane protein fold recognition tool.
Multiobjective triclustering of time-series transcriptome data reveals key genes of biological processes.
Factors affecting the accuracy of a class prediction model in gene expression data.
RDML-Ninja and RDMLdb for standardized exchange of qPCR data.
Ferret: a sentence-based literature scanning system.
Alignment of time course gene expression data and the classification of developmentally driven genes with hidden Markov models.
Integrated web visualizations for protein-protein interaction databases.
AllelicImbalance: an R/ bioconductor package for detecting, managing, and visualizing allele expression imbalance data from RNA sequencing.
A composite genome approach to identify phylogenetically informative data from next-generation sequencing.
BitMapper: an efficient all-mapper based on bit-vector computing.
Clotho: addressing the scalability of forward time population genetic simulation.
Light-weight reference-based compression of FASTQ data.
Optimization of sequence alignments according to the number of sequences vs. number of sites trade-off.
WormGUIDES: an interactive single cell developmental atlas and tool for collaborative multidimensional data exploration.
Robust and automated three-dimensional segmentation of densely packed cell nuclei in different biological specimens with Lines-of-Sight decomposition.
Using Gene Ontology to describe the role of the neurexin-neuroligin-SHANK complex in human, mouse and rat and its relevance to autism.
Text mining facilitates database curation - extraction of mutation-disease associations from Bio-medical literature.
UNCLES: method for the identification of genes differentially consistently co-expressed in a specific subset of datasets.
Optimizing agent-based transmission models for infectious diseases.
Alternative splicing detection workflow needs a careful combination of sample prep and bioinformatics analysis.
Kissing loop interaction in adenine riboswitch: insights from umbrella sampling simulations.
Differential diagnosis of pleural mesothelioma using Logic Learning Machine.
Fast randomized approximate string matching with succinct hash data structures.
Preface: BITS2014, the annual meeting of the Italian Society of Bioinformatics.
ComiRNet: a web-based system for the analysis of miRNA-gene regulatory networks.
adLIMS: a customized open source software that allows bridging clinical and basic molecular research studies.
Automatising the analysis of stochastic biochemical time-series.
DECODE: an integrated differential co-expression and differential expression analysis of gene expression data.
Navigating 3D electron microscopy maps with EM-SURFER.
Discrimination of cell cycle phases in PCNA-immunolabeled cells.
Mirinho: An efficient and general plant and animal pre-miRNA predictor for genomic and deep sequencing data.
Ambivalent covariance models.
MANTIS: an R package that simulates multilocus models of pathogen evolution.
tcR: an R package for T cell receptor repertoire advanced data analysis.
Learning-guided automatic three dimensional synapse quantification for drosophila neurons.
A density-based clustering approach for identifying overlapping protein complexes with functional preferences.
Weighted protein residue networks based on joint recurrences between residues.
NetworkPainter: dynamic intracellular pathway animation in Cytobank.
Probing long-range interactions by extracting free energies from genome-wide chromosome conformation capture data.
HTJoinSolver: Human immunoglobulin VDJ partitioning using approximate dynamic programming constrained by conserved motifs.
InteractiVenn: a web-based tool for the analysis of sets through Venn diagrams.
Software for the analysis and visualization of deep mutational scanning data.
Multi-class BCGA-ELM based classifier that identifies biomarkers associated with hallmarks of cancer.
affy2sv: an R package to pre-process Affymetrix CytoScan HD and 750K arrays for SNP, CNV, inversion and mosaicism calling.
PathRings: a web-based tool for exploration of ortholog and expression data in biological pathways.
NetCooperate: a network-based tool for inferring host-microbe and microbe-microbe cooperation.
Optimal programs of pathway control: dissecting the influence of pathway topology and feedback inhibition on pathway regulation.
ProtDCal: A program to compute general-purpose-numerical descriptors for sequences and 3D-structures of proteins.
Hierarchical decomposition of dynamically evolving regulatory networks.
A Long Fragment Aligner called ALFALFA.
GENLIB: an R package for the analysis of genealogical data.
KnowLife: a versatile approach for constructing a large knowledge graph for biomedical sciences.
In-vitro diagnosis of single and poly microbial species targeted for diabetic foot infection using e-nose technology.
ISOpureR: an R implementation of a computational purification algorithm of mixed tumour profiles.
MSCA: a spectral comparison algorithm between time series to identify protein-protein interactions.
Domain similarity based orthology detection.
PhyTB: Phylogenetic tree visualisation and sample positioning for M. tuberculosis.
DisCons: a novel tool to quantify and classify evolutionary conservation of intrinsic protein disorder.
A multi-view genomic data simulator.
Is this the right normalization? A diagnostic tool for ChIP-seq normalization.
Bilingual term alignment from comparable corpora in English discharge summary and Chinese discharge summary.
Performance of a blockwise approach in variable selection using linkage disequilibrium information.
Deep convolutional neural networks for annotating gene expression patterns in the mouse brain.
Determining minimum set of driver nodes in protein-protein interaction networks.
Controlling false discoveries in high-dimensional situations: boosting with stability selection.
Field phenotyping of grapevine growth using dense stereo reconstruction.
Estimation of the methylation pattern distribution from deep sequencing data.
Pydna: a simulation and documentation tool for DNA assembly strategies using python.
Optimally choosing PWM motif databases and sequence scanning approaches based on ChIP-seq data.
VISIONET: intuitive visualisation of overlapping transcription factor networks, with applications in cardiogenic gene discovery.
An overview of the BIOASQ large-scale biomedical semantic indexing and question answering competition.
Principal component analysis-based unsupervised feature extraction applied to in silico drug discovery for posttraumatic stress disorder-mediated heart disease.
Sifter-T: A scalable framework for phylogenomic probabilistic protein domain functional annotation.
Evolution of 3'UTR-associated RNAs.
Taxonomic and functional diversity of microbial community from a mining environment.
Using coevolution to improve protein subfamily classification.
Exploring the membrane potential of a simple dual membrane system by using a constant electric field.
Rational discovery of new capsaicin analogues as TRPV1 activators.
Highlights from the 1st ISCB Latin American Student Council Symposium 2014.
Mendel,MD: a user-friendly online program for clinical exome analysis.
Visual analysis of biological data-knowledge networks.
UrQt: an efficient software for the Unsupervised Quality trimming of NGS data.
plethy: management of whole body plethysmography data in R.
Customised fragments libraries for protein structure prediction based on structural class annotations.
Secondary structural entropy in RNA switch (Riboswitch) identification.
Elviz – exploration of metagenome assemblies with an interactive visualization tool.
coMET: visualisation of regional epigenome-wide association scan results and DNA co-methylation patterns.
Moment based gene set tests.
Structured learning for spatial information extraction from biomedical text: bacteria biotopes.
Grammar-based compression approach to extraction of common rules among multiple trees of glycans and RNAs.
DOCKSCORE: a webserver for ranking protein-protein docked poses.
KaBOB: ontology-based semantic integration of biomedical databases.
Psychoactive pharmaceuticals as environmental contaminants may disrupt highly inter-connected nodes in an Autism-associated protein-protein interaction network.
MICA: A fast short-read aligner that takes full advantage of Many Integrated Core Architecture (MIC).
Heterozygous genome assembly via binary classification of homologous sequence.
Self-training in significance space of support vectors for imbalanced biomedical event data.
A practical guideline for intracranial volume estimation in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
A method of searching for related literature on protein structure analysis by considering a user's intention.
A coherent mathematical characterization of isotope trace extraction, isotopic envelope extraction, and LC-MS correspondence.
A novel procedure for statistical inference and verification of gene regulatory subnetwork.
Current controlled vocabularies are insufficient to uniquely map molecular entities to mass spectrometry signal.
A probabilistic approach for pediatric epilepsy diagnosis using brain functional connectivity networks.
Quantifying conformational changes in GPCRs: glimpse of a common functional mechanism.
SomInaClust: detection of cancer genes based on somatic mutation patterns of inactivation and clustering.
PaPI: pseudo amino acid composition to score human protein-coding variants.
Comparative proteomics: assessment of biological variability and dataset comparability.
Sparse conditional logistic regression for analyzing large-scale matched data from epidemiological studies: a simple algorithm.
Probabilistic topic modeling for the analysis and classification of genomic sequences.
Machine-learning scoring functions for identifying native poses of ligands docked to known and novel proteins.
Inferring slowly-changing dynamic gene-regulatory networks.
Computational algorithms to predict Gene Ontology annotations.
ContextMap 2: fast and accurate context-based RNA-seq mapping.
CHEXVIS: a tool for molecular channel extraction and visualization.
Comparative interactions of withanolides and sterols with two members of sterol glycosyltransferases from Withania somnifera.
Interpolation based consensus clustering for gene expression time series.
IPO: a tool for automated optimization of XCMS parameters.
MAESTRO - multi agent stability prediction upon point mutations.
A network model for angiogenesis in ovarian cancer.
REGULATOR: a database of metazoan transcription factors and maternal factors for developmental studies.
Feature engineering for MEDLINE citation categorization with MeSH.
Differential co-expression and regulation analyses reveal different mechanisms underlying major depressive disorder and subsyndromal symptomatic depression.
OpenMS-Simulator: an open-source software for theoretical tandem mass spectrum prediction.
YOC, A new strategy for pairwise alignment of collinear genomes.
Essentiality and centrality in protein interaction networks revisited.
Wide-coverage relation extraction from MEDLINE using deep syntax.
Efficient representation of uncertainty in multiple sequence alignments using directed acyclic graphs.
A strategy to build and validate a prognostic biomarker model based on RT-qPCR gene expression and clinical covariates.
A unified framework for estimating parameters of kinetic biological models.
Aro: a machine learning approach to identifying single molecules and estimating classification error in fluorescence microscopy images.
Understanding the molecular basis of EGFR kinase domain/MIG-6 peptide recognition complex using computational analyses.
FlowClus: efficiently filtering and denoising pyrosequenced amplicons.
Prediction of host - pathogen protein interactions between Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Homo sapiens using sequence motifs.
ProteinVolume: calculating molecular van der Waals and void volumes in proteins.
Automatic segmentation of deep intracerebral electrodes in computed tomography scans.
aTRAM - automated target restricted assembly method: a fast method for assembling loci across divergent taxa from next-generation sequencing data.
Systematic computation with functional gene-sets among leukemic and hematopoietic stem cells reveals a favorable prognostic signature for acute myeloid leukemia.
Cell-composition effects in the analysis of DNA methylation array data: a mathematical perspective.
DomSign: a top-down annotation pipeline to enlarge enzyme space in the protein universe.
Identification of binding sites and favorable ligand binding moieties by virtual screening and self-organizing map analysis.
Sigma-RF: prediction of the variability of spatial restraints in template-based modeling by random forest.
dbVOR: a database system for importing pedigree, phenotype and genotype data and exporting selected subsets.
Re-alignment of the unmapped reads with base quality score.
Using epigenomics data to predict gene expression in lung cancer.
Isomorphism and similarity for 2-generation pedigrees.
PIGS: improved estimates of identity-by-descent probabilities by probabilistic IBD graph sampling.
Identifying overlapping mutated driver pathways by constructing gene networks in cancer.
Comparing a knowledge-driven approach to a supervised machine learning approach in large-scale extraction of drug-side effect relationships from free-text biomedical literature.
A comparative study of disease genes and drug targets in the human protein interactome.
A molecular structure matching approach to efficient identification of endogenous mammalian biochemical structures.
Exploiting topic modeling to boost metagenomic reads binning.
An integrated network of microRNA and gene expression in ovarian cancer.
Improving multiple sequence alignment by using better guide trees.
Constrained distance transforms for spatial atlas registration.
Identifying module biomarker in type 2 diabetes mellitus by discriminative area of functional activity.
Predicted protein-protein interactions in the moss Physcomitrella patens: a new bioinformatic resource.
NoDe: a fast error-correction algorithm for pyrosequencing amplicon reads.
PathwayBooster: a tool to support the curation of metabolic pathways.
BMC Bioinformatics reviewer acknowledgement 2014.
SimBA: simulation algorithm to fit extant-population distributions.
Novel genetic matching methods for handling population stratification in genome-wide association studies.
USI: a fast and accurate approach for conceptual document annotation.
EGFR Mutant Structural Database: computationally predicted 3D structures and the corresponding binding free energies with gefitinib and erlotinib.
A semi–supervised tensor regression model for siRNA efficacy prediction.
A model of the regulatory network involved in the control of the cell cycle and cell differentiation in the Caenorhabditis elegans vulva.
micropan: an R-package for microbial pan-genomics.
Fully automated pipeline for detection of sex linked genes using RNA-Seq data.
Kernel approaches for differential expression analysis of mass spectrometry-based metabolomics data.
Inferring dynamic gene regulatory networks in cardiac differentiation through the integration of multi-dimensional data.
Comparing variant calling algorithms for target-exon sequencing in a large sample.
Identification of active miRNA and transcription factor regulatory pathways in human obesity-related inflammation.
GBSX: a toolkit for experimental design and demultiplexing genotyping by sequencing experiments.
A high performance prediction of HPV genotypes by Chaos game representation and singular value decomposition.
ITIS, a bioinformatics tool for accurate identification of transposon insertion sites using next-generation sequencing data.
Spectral gene set enrichment (SGSE).
Classification of bioinformatics workflows using weighted versions of partitioning and hierarchical clustering algorithms.
RIEMS: a software pipeline for sensitive and comprehensive taxonomic classification of reads from metagenomics datasets.
MetCap: a bioinformatics probe design pipeline for large-scale targeted metagenomics.
SCNVSim: somatic copy number variation and structure variation simulator.
GeneDig: a web application for accessing genomic and bioinformatics knowledge.
Impact of missing data imputation methods on gene expression clustering and classification.
Removing batch effects from purified plasma cell gene expression microarrays with modified ComBat.
Metabolome searcher: a high throughput tool for metabolite identification and metabolic pathway mapping directly from mass spectrometry and using genome restriction.
BgN-Score and BsN-Score: Bagging and boosting based ensemble neural networks scoring functions for accurate binding affinity prediction of protein-ligand complexes.
Analysis of miRNA expression profiles in breast cancer using biclustering.
Beef quality parameters estimation using ultrasound and color images.
Integration of gene expression and DNA-methylation profiles improves molecular subtype classification in acute myeloid leukemia.
An integrated approach of gene expression and DNA-methylation profiles of WNT signaling genes uncovers novel prognostic markers in Acute Myeloid Leukemia.
The relative vertex clustering value - a new criterion for the fast discovery of functional modules in protein interaction networks.
Problems with the nested granularity of feature domains in bioinformatics: the eXtasy case.
Gram-positive and gram-negative subcellular localization using rotation forest and physicochemical-based features.
ViVaMBC: estimating viral sequence variation in complex populations from illumina deep-sequencing data using model-based clustering.
A hidden Markov approach for ascertaining cSNP genotypes from RNA sequence data in the presence of allelic imbalance by exploiting linkage disequilibrium.
histoneHMM: Differential analysis of histone modifications with broad genomic footprints.
Extraction of relations between genes and diseases from text and large-scale data analysis: implications for translational research.
Identifying named entities from PubMed® for enriching semantic categories.
Discovery of prognostic biomarkers for predicting lung cancer metastasis using microarray and survival data.
BiNChE: A web tool and library for chemical enrichment analysis based on the ChEBI ontology.
Inferring bona fide transfrags in RNA-Seq derived-transcriptome assemblies of non-model organisms.
The effect of rare variants on inflation of the test statistics in case–control analyses.
A multiobjective approach to the genetic code adaptability problem.
Pheno2Geno - High-throughput generation of genetic markers and maps from molecular phenotypes for crosses between inbred strains.
Data-driven encoding for quantitative genetic trait prediction.
The application of sparse estimation of covariance matrix to quadratic discriminant analysis.
Sampling with poling-based flux balance analysis: optimal versus sub-optimal flux space analysis of Actinobacillus succinogenes.
Insertion and deletion correcting DNA barcodes based on watermarks.
MeSH ORA framework: R/Bioconductor packages to support MeSH over-representation analysis.
OTO: Ontology Term Organizer.
Family-based association analysis: a fast and efficient method of multivariate association analysis with multiple variants.
Measuring semantic similarities by combining gene ontology annotations and gene co-function networks.
Improving duplicated nodes position in vertebrate gene trees.
Hybrid approaches for the detection of networks of critical residues involved in functional motions in protein families.
Identification and analysis of methylation call differences between bisulfite microarray and bisulfite sequencing data with statistical learning techniques.
Mining the human proteome for conserved mechanisms.
An exploration of the 3D chemical space has highlighted a specific shape profile for the compounds intended to inhibit protein-protein interactions.
Applications of proteochemometrics - from species extrapolation to cell line sensitivity modelling.
Using ConTemplate and the PDB to explore conformational space: on the detection of rare protein conformations.
Viral DNA replication: new insights and discoveries from large scale computational analysis.
Highlights from the Third European International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB) Student Council Symposium 2014.
Identification of indels in next-generation sequencing data.
NMF-mGPU: non-negative matrix factorization on multi-GPU systems.
Identifying restrictions in the order of accumulation of mutations during tumor progression: effects of passengers, evolutionary models, and sampling.
An evidence-based approach to identify aging-related genes in Caenorhabditis elegans.
Effective alignment of RNA pseudoknot structures using partition function posterior log-odds scores.
BACA: bubble chArt to compare annotations.
Data-intensive analysis of HIV mutations.
Mutations and CpG islands among hepatitis B virus genotypes in Europe.
MBBC: an efficient approach for metagenomic binning based on clustering.
Evaluation and improvements of clustering algorithms for detecting remote homologous protein families.
Sensitive and highly resolved identification of RNA-protein interaction sites in PAR-CLIP data.
PCalign: a method to quantify physicochemical similarity of protein-protein interfaces.
A systematic evaluation of high-dimensional, ensemble-based regression for exploring large model spaces in microbiome analyses.
MARZ: an algorithm to combinatorially analyze gapped n-mer models of transcription factor binding.
Alignment-free clustering of transcription factor binding motifs using a genetic-k-medoids approach.
Computational study of β-N-acetylhexosaminidase from Talaromyces flavus, a glycosidase with high substrate flexibility.
Exploring possible DNA structures in real-time polymerase kinetics using Pacific Biosciences sequencer data.
Aber-OWL: a framework for ontology-based data access in biology.
Candidate prioritization for low-abundant differentially expressed proteins in 2D-DIGE datasets.
An algorithm to enumerate all possible protein conformations verifying a set of distance constraints.
Fast inexact mapping using advanced tree exploration on backward search methods.
Quantitative analysis of differences in copy numbers using read depth obtained from PCR-enriched samples and controls.
TagDust2: a generic method to extract reads from sequencing data.
ERD: a fast and reliable tool for RNA design including constraints.
MDAT- Aligning multiple domain arrangements.
Parameter advising for multiple sequence alignment.
The road to linking genomics and proteomics of pathogenic bacteria: from binary protein complexes to interaction pathways.
Normalizing alternate representations of large sequence variants across multiple bacterial genomes.
Tetranucleotide usage in mycobacteriophage genomes: alignment-free methods to cluster phage and infer evolutionary relationships.
Protein translational control and its contribution to oncogenesis revealed by computational methods.
Genotyping microsatellites in next-generation sequencing data.
Statistical elimination of spectral features with large between-run variation enhances quantitative protein-level conclusions in experiments with data-independent spectral acquisition.
COSMOS: cloud enabled NGS analysis.
NGS-Logistics: data infrastructure for efficient analysis of NGS sequence variants across multiple centers.
Highlights from the tenth ISCB Student Council Symposium 2014.
The acquisition of novel N-glycosylation sites in conserved proteins during human evolution.
SFMetrics: an analysis tool for scanning force microscopy images of biomolecules.
ViralmiR: a support-vector-machine-based method for predicting viral microRNA precursors.
SCMPSP: Prediction and characterization of photosynthetic proteins based on a scoring card method.
On the packing density of the unbound protein-protein interaction interface and its implications in dynamics.
Network tuned multiple rank aggregation and applications to gene ranking.
An interpretable rule-based diagnostic classification of diabetic nephropathy among type 2 diabetes patients.
Estimating copy numbers of alleles from population-scale high-throughput sequencing data.
IAOseq: inferring abundance of overlapping genes using RNA-seq data.
PEAT: an intelligent and efficient paired-end sequencing adapter trimming algorithm.
Characterization and identification of ubiquitin conjugation sites with E3 ligase recognition specificities.
Structure and sequence analyses of Bacteroides proteins BVU_4064 and BF1687 reveal presence of two novel predominantly-beta domains, predicted to be involved in lipid and cell surface interactions.
Fast and robust group-wise eQTL mapping using sparse graphical models.
YersiniaBase: a genomic resource and analysis platform for comparative analysis of Yersinia.
Predicting protein functions using incomplete hierarchical labels.
Decomposing the space of protein quaternary structures with the interface fragment pair library.
Amyloid precursor protein interaction network in human testis: sentinel proteins for male reproduction.
Single-molecule dataset (SMD): a generalized storage format for raw and processed single-molecule data.
Rational selection of experimental readout and intervention sites for reducing uncertainties in computational model predictions.
Biomedical question answering using semantic relations.
Improving statistical inference on pathogen densities estimated by quantitative molecular methods: malaria gametocytaemia as a case study.
Pollux: platform independent error correction of single and mixed genomes.
SubPatCNV: approximate subspace pattern mining for mapping copy-number variations.
Nonparametric Bayesian clustering to detect bipolar methylated genomic loci.
Semi-supervised adaptive-height snipping of the hierarchical clustering tree.
Fast individual ancestry inference from DNA sequence data leveraging allele frequencies for multiple populations.
HyLiTE: accurate and flexible analysis of gene expression in hybrid and allopolyploid species.
