Computational analysis of protein interaction networks for infectious diseases.
Systematic dissection of dysregulated transcription factor–miRNA feed-forward loops across tumor types.
Progress and challenges in bioinformatics approaches for enhancer identification.
Evaluation of preprocessing, mapping and postprocessing algorithms for analyzing whole genome bisulfite sequencing data.
Towards improved genome-scale metabolic network reconstructions: unification, transcript specificity and beyond.
In the loop: promoter–enhancer interactions and bioinformatics.
Comparative study of joint analysis of microarray gene expression data in survival prediction and risk assessment of breast cancer patients.
Interpreting functional effects of coding variants: challenges in proteome-scale prediction, annotation and assessment.
Pathway Tools version 19.0 update: software for pathway/genome informatics and systems biology.
Public data and open source tools for multi-assay genomic investigation of disease.
Statistical methods for detecting differentially methylated regions based on MethylCap-seq data.
MST2-RASSF protein–protein interactions through SARAH domains.
The digital revolution in phenotyping.
Recent Advances and Emerging Applications in Text and Data Mining for Biomedical Discovery.
Collaborative science in the next-generation sequencing era: a viewpoint on how to combine exome sequencing data across sites to identify novel disease susceptibility genes.
Gene set analysis approaches for RNA-seq data: performance evaluation and application guideline.
Comparison of haplotype-based statistical tests for disease association with rare and common variants.
Systems medicine of inflammaging.
Advances in computational approaches for prioritizing driver mutations and significantly mutated genes in cancer genomes.
Algorithms for modeling global and context-specific functional relationship networks.
Mitochondria sequence mapping strategies and practicability of mitochondria variant detection from exome and RNA sequencing data.
Reasoning over genetic variance information in cause-and-effect models of neurodegenerative diseases.
Normalization of circulating microRNA expression data obtained by quantitative real-time RT-PCR.
A literature mining-based approach for identification of cellular pathways associated with chemoresistance in cancer.
Evaluation of somatic copy number estimation tools for whole-exome sequencing data.
VCF-Miner: GUI-based application for mining variants and annotations stored in VCF files.
Empirical comparison of structure-based pathway methods.
Critical evaluation of in silico methods for prediction of coiled-coil domains in proteins.
Improving protein identification from tandem mass spectrometry data by one-step methods and integrating data from other platforms.
Using prior knowledge from cellular pathways and molecular networks for diagnostic specimen classification.
A roadmap to multifactor dimensionality reduction methods.
Building a virtual ligand screening pipeline using free software: a survey.
Microbial bioinformatics for food safety and production.
Revealing protein–lncRNA interaction.
Denoising DNA deep sequencing data—high-throughput sequencing errors and their correction.
Progress and challenges in predicting protein interfaces.
Community challenges in biomedical text mining over 10 years: success, failure and the future.
Crowdsourcing in biomedicine: challenges and opportunities.
Optimization of miRNA-seq data preprocessing.
The role of ontologies in biological and biomedical research: a functional perspective.
A survey of current trends in computational drug repositioning.
Molecular portraits: the evolution of the concept of transcriptome-based cancer signatures.
Adapting bioinformatics curricula for big data.
Assessing the consistency of public human tissue RNA-seq data sets.
Predicting protein interface residues using easily accessible on-line resources.
Evaluation of a two-stage framework for prediction using big genomic data.
A comparative study of RNA-seq analysis strategies.
Environmental genes and genomes: understanding the differences and challenges in the approaches and software for their analyses.
The complexity, challenges and benefits of comparing two transporter classification systems in TCDB and Pfam.
Detecting associations of rare variants with common diseases: collapsing or haplotyping?
