Skin Autofluorescence in Systemic Sclerosis Is Related to the Disease and Vascular Damage: A Cross-Sectional Analytic Study of Comparative Groups.
Replication of GWAS Coding SNPs Implicates MMEL1 as a Potential Susceptibility Locus among Saudi Arabian Celiac Disease Patients.
Postoperative CA19-9 Change Is a Useful Predictor of Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma Survival following Liver Resection.
Krüppel-Like Factor 4 Inhibits the Transforming Growth Factor-β1-Promoted Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition via Downregulating Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor-1 in Lung Epithelial Cells.
Reduced Histone H3 Acetylation in CD4+ T Lymphocytes: Potential Mechanism of Latent Autoimmune Diabetes in Adults.
Immunoexpression of Ki-67, MCM2, and MCM3 in Ameloblastoma and Ameloblastic Carcinoma and Their Correlations with Clinical and Histopathological Patterns.
Clinical Applications of Hemolytic Markers in the Differential Diagnosis and Management of Hemolytic Anemia.
Significant Association of HLA-B Alleles and Genotypes in Thai Children with Autism Spectrum Disorders: A Case-Control Study.
Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms in P2X7 Gene Are Associated with Serum Immunoglobulin G Responses to Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Tuberculosis Patients.
Correlation and Significance of Urinary Soluble Fas and Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor in Bladder Urothelial Cancer.
Markers of Perioperative Bowel Complications in Colorectal Surgery Patients.
Serum Cytokine of IL-10 and IL-12 in Chronic Liver Disease: The Immune and Inflammatory Response.
Involvement of Kallikrein-Related Peptidases in Normal and Pathologic Processes.
Steroid Hormone Receptor Signals as Prognosticators for Urothelial Tumor.
Evaluation of the In Vivo and In Vitro Effects of Fructose on Respiratory Chain Complexes in Tissues of Young Rats.
Association of the C47T Polymorphism in SOD2 with Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer's Disease in Carriers of the APOEε4 Allele.
Association between Plasma Leptin and Estrogen in Female Patients of Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment.
Anti-MUC1 Antibody in Nipple Aspirate Fluids Correlates with Tumor Aggressiveness in Breast Cancer: A Feasibility Study.
Hypermethylation-Associated Silencing of miR-125a and miR-125b: A Potential Marker in Colorectal Cancer.
Mean Platelet Volume and Platelet Distribution Width as Markers in the Diagnosis of Acute Gangrenous Appendicitis.
Association between Estrogen Receptor-α Gene XbaI and PvuII Polymorphisms and Periodontitis Susceptibility: A Meta-Analysis.
Predictive Markers for the Recurrence of Nonmuscle Invasive Bladder Cancer Treated with Intravesical Therapy.
Matrix Metalloproteinase-9/Neutrophil Gelatinase-Associated Lipocalin Complex Activity in Human Glioma Samples Predicts Tumor Presence and Clinical Prognosis.
Increased Avidity of the Sambucus nigra Lectin-Reactive Antibodies to the Thomsen-Friedenreich Antigen as a Potential Biomarker for Gastric Cancer.
Expression of Ribonucleotide Reductase Subunit-2 and Thymidylate Synthase Correlates with Poor Prognosis in Patients with Resected Stages I–III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer.
Tissue Specific Promoters in Colorectal Cancer.
Association of Cytokeratin and Vimentin Protein in the Genesis of Transitional Cell Carcinoma of Urinary Bladder Patients.
Inhibition of HIF-1α Affects Autophagy Mediated Glycosylation in Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma Cells.
Procalcitonin, MR-Proadrenomedullin, and Cytokines Measurement in Sepsis Diagnosis: Advantages from Test Combination.
High Serum Level of β2-Microglobulin in Late Posttransplant Period Predicts Subsequent Decline in Kidney Allograft Function: A Preliminary Study.
Perspective Biological Markers for Autism Spectrum Disorders: Advantages of the Use of Receiver Operating Characteristic Curves in Evaluating Marker Sensitivity and Specificity.
Clinicopathological Significance of MicroRNA-20b Expression in Hepatocellular Carcinoma and Regulation of HIF-1α and VEGF Effect on Cell Biological Behaviour.
Metabolic Serum Profiles for Patients Receiving Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation: The Pretransplant Profile Differs for Patients with and without Posttransplant Capillary Leak Syndrome.
Magnetic Resonance Imaging as a Biomarker for Renal Cell Carcinoma.
DNA Repair Gene Polymorphism and the Risk of Mitral Chordae Tendineae Rupture.
High Thyroglobulin Antibody Levels Increase the Risk of Differentiated Thyroid Carcinoma.
The Role of Circulating Tight Junction Proteins in Evaluating Blood Brain Barrier Disruption following Intracranial Hemorrhage.
NRAMP1 and VDR Gene Polymorphisms in Susceptibility to Tuberculosis in Venezuelan Population.
Upregulated Expression of SOX4 Is Associated with Tumor Growth and Metastasis in Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma.
Clinicopathologic and Prognostic Value of Serum Carbohydrate Antigen 19-9 in Gastric Cancer: A Meta-Analysis.
Effects of Antitumor Necrosis Factor Therapy on Osteoprotegerin, Neopterin, and sRANKL Concentrations in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis.
The Role of Vitamin D in Diabetes and Cardiovascular Disease: An Updated Review of the Literature.
Prognostic Role of MicroRNA-200c-141 Cluster in Various Human Solid Malignant Neoplasms.
Complement Split Products in Amniotic Fluid in Pregnancies Subsequently Developing Early-Onset Preeclampsia.
Allelic Imbalance of mRNA Associated with α2-HS Glycoprotein (Fetuin-A) Polymorphism.
Antibodies against C1q Are a Valuable Serological Marker for Identification of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Patients with Active Lupus Nephritis.
Gamma-Glutamyltransferase: A Predictive Biomarker of Cellular Antioxidant Inadequacy and Disease Risk.
CD73 Predicts Favorable Prognosis in Patients with Nonmuscle-Invasive Urothelial Bladder Cancer.
Breath Hydrogen as a Biomarker for Glucose Malabsorption after Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass Surgery.
Is It Possible to Differentiate Chronic Kidney Disease and Preeclampsia by means of New and Old Biomarkers? A Prospective Study.
Effects of Long-Term Statin Therapy in Coronary Artery Disease Patients with or without Chronic Kidney Disease.
Prognostic Value of High CXCR4 Expression in Renal Cell Carcinoma: A System Review and Meta-Analysis.
Impaired Fasting Glucose in Nondiabetic Range: Is It a Marker of Cardiovascular Risk Factor Clustering?
Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, Hypermobility Type, Is Linked to Chromosome 8p22-8p21.1 in an Extended Belgian Family.
Oxidative Stress Parameters in Saliva and Its Association with Periodontal Disease and Types of Bacteria.
Bone Marrow Stromal Antigen 2 Is a Novel Plasma Biomarker and Prognosticator for Colorectal Carcinoma: A Secretome-Based Verification Study.
HER2 Status in Premalignant, Early, and Advanced Neoplastic Lesions of the Stomach.
Helicobacter pylori Antibody Titer and Gastric Cancer Screening.
The Relation between eNOS −786 C/T, 4 a/b, MMP-13 rs640198 G/T, Eotaxin 426 C/T, −384 A/G, and 67 G/A Polymorphisms and Long-Term Outcome in Patients with Coronary Artery Disease.
Assessment of Immunological Biomarkers in the First Year after Heart Transplantation.
Association of Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Insertion-Deletion Polymorphism with Hypertension in Emiratis with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Its Interaction with Obesity Status.
Identification of Novel Epigenetic Markers of Prostate Cancer by NotI-Microarray Analysis.
FGF23 in Acute and Chronic Illness.
Roles of NOTCH1 as a Therapeutic Target and a Biomarker for Lung Cancer: Controversies and Perspectives.
The Association of Serum IL-33 and sST2 with Breast Cancer.
High-Dose versus Low-Dose Vitamin D Supplementation and Arterial Stiffness among Individuals with Prehypertension and Vitamin D Deficiency.
Association of Plasma Myeloperoxidase Level with Risk of Coronary Artery Disease in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes.
Serum Survivin Levels and Outcome of Chemotherapy in Patients with Malignant Mesothelioma.
Tissue Kallikrein Activity, Detected by a Novel Method, May Be a Predictor of Recurrent Stroke: A Case-Control Study.
CSF Levels of Angiopoietin-2 Do Not Differ between Patients with CSF Fluid Leakage Syndrome and Controls.
Optimal Vitamin D Supplementation Levels for Cardiovascular Disease Protection.
Influence of GSTM1, GSTT1, and GSTP1 Polymorphisms on Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Diabetic Sensorimotor Peripheral Neuropathy Risk.
Identification of Circulating miRNAs in a Mouse Model of Nerve Allograft Transplantation under FK506 Immunosuppression by Illumina Small RNA Deep Sequencing.
Extracellular Vesicles as Biomarkers of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus.
Plasma Interleukin-37 Is Elevated in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis: Its Correlation with Disease Activity and Th1/Th2/Th17-Related Cytokines.
Clinical Significance of SASH1 Expression in Glioma.
Aerobic Glycolysis as a Marker of Tumor Aggressiveness: Preliminary Data in High Grade Human Brain Tumors.
Serum and Vitreous Concentrations of Omentin-1 in Diabetic Retinopathy.
Role of MALAT1 as a Prognostic Factor for Survival in Various Cancers: A Systematic Review of the Literature with Meta-Analysis.
Activated Complement Factors as Disease Markers for Sepsis.
Syndecan-1 in Cancer: Implications for Cell Signaling, Differentiation, and Prognostication.
Polymorphism on Chromosome 9p21.3 Is Associated with Severity and Early-Onset CAD in Type 2 Diabetic Tunisian Population.
Urine Cell-Free DNA Integrity Analysis for Early Detection of Prostate Cancer Patients.
Noncoding Genomics in Gastric Cancer and the Gastric Precancerous Cascade: Pathogenesis and Biomarkers.
The Prognostic Role of Red Blood Cell Distribution Width in Coronary Artery Disease: A Review of the Pathophysiology.
Site-Specific Secretome Map Evidences VSMC-Related Markers of Coronary Atherosclerosis Grade and Extent in the Hypercholesterolemic Swine.
A Genetic Variant in miRNA-219-1 Is Associated with Risk of Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma in Chinese Kazakhs.
Hiwi Promotes the Proliferation of Colorectal Cancer Cells via Upregulating Global DNA Methylation.
Effect of Increased Water Intake on Urinary DNA Adduct Levels and Mutagenicity in Smokers: A Randomized Study.
Prognostic Role of MicroRNA-126 for Survival in Malignant Tumors: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.
The Prognostic Value of Pyrosequencing-Detected MGMT Promoter Hypermethylation in Newly Diagnosed Patients with Glioblastoma.
Blood Contamination in Saliva: Impact on the Measurement of Salivary Oxidative Stress Markers.
Chemokine Coreceptor-2 Gene Polymorphisms among HIV-1 Infected Individuals in Kenya.
The Clinical and Pathological Significance of Nectin-2 and DDX3 Expression in Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinomas.
Corrigendum to “The Analysis of Sialylation, N-Glycan Branching, and Expression of O-Glycans in Seminal Plasma of Infertile Men”.
Carboxyhemoglobin Formation in Preterm Infants Is Related to the Subsequent Development of Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia.
The Effect of PAI-1 4G/5G Polymorphism and Clinical Factors on Coronary Artery Occlusion in Myocardial Infarction.
Prognostic Value of FOXM1 in Patients with Malignant Solid Tumor: A Meta-Analysis and System Review.
Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers in Spinocerebellar Ataxia: A Pilot Study.
Clinical Applications of Natriuretic Peptides in Assessment of Valvular Heart Disease.
Serum GRP78 as a Tumor Marker and Its Prognostic Significance in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancers: A Retrospective Study.
Characteristics of Three-Dimensional Power Doppler in Gestational Trophoblastic Disease.
Electrocardiographic Predictors of Cardiovascular Mortality.
Association of DNA Repair Gene APE1 Asp148Glu Polymorphism with Breast Cancer Risk.
Hemoglobin A1c Level Is Not Related to the Severity of Atherosclerosis in Patients with Acute Coronary Syndrome.
Toll-Like Receptor 9 Inactivation Alleviated Atherosclerotic Progression and Inhibited Macrophage Polarized to M1 Phenotype in ApoE−/− Mice.
The Difference between Growth Factor Expression after Single and Multiple Fractures: Preliminary Results in Human Fracture Healing.
Hemostatic Parameters according to Renal Function and Time after Transplantation in Brazilian Renal Transplanted Patients.
Radiosynthesis, In Vivo Biological Evaluation, and Imaging of Brain Lesions with [123I]-CLINME, a New SPECT Tracer for the Translocator Protein.
The Impact of Gene Polymorphisms on the Success of Anticholinergic Treatment in Children with Overactive Bladder.
Aldehyde Dehydrogenase Polymorphisms and Blood Pressure Elevation in the Japanese: A Cross-Sectional and a Longitudinal Study over 20 Years in the Shimane CoHRE Study.
Retracted: System Accuracy Evaluation of the GlucoRx Nexus Voice TD-4280 Blood Glucose Monitoring System.
Predicting Preterm Labour: Current Status and Future Prospects.
Serum Cystatin C for the Diagnosis of Acute Kidney Injury in Patients Admitted in the Emergency Department.
Serum Chemerin Levels in relation to Osteoporosis and Bone Mineral Density: A Case-Control Study.
HULC and H19 Played Different Roles in Overall and Disease-Free Survival from Hepatocellular Carcinoma after Curative Hepatectomy: A Preliminary Analysis from Gene Expression Omnibus.
First-Trimester Serum Acylcarnitine Levels to Predict Preeclampsia: A Metabolomics Approach.
Association of FTO Mutations with Risk and Survival of Breast Cancer in a Chinese Population.
Comparison of Specificity and Sensitivity of AMH and FSH in Diagnosis of Premature Ovarian Failure.
Serum Levels of Progranulin Are Closely Associated with Microvascular Complication in Type 2 Diabetes.
Hyperoxia-Induced Protein Alterations in Renal Rat Tissue: A Quantitative Proteomic Approach to Identify Hyperoxia-Induced Effects in Cellular Signaling Pathways.
Uric Acid as a Marker of Kidney Disease: Review of the Current Literature.
Epstein-Barr Virus Specific Antibody Response in Multiple Sclerosis Patients during 21 Months of Natalizumab Treatment.
Association of PRPS1 Mutations with Disease Phenotypes.
Serum MicroRNA Profiles Serve as Novel Biomarkers for the Diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease.
Monitoring of Serial Presurgical and Postsurgical Changes in the Serum Proteome in a Series of Patients with Calcific Aortic Stenosis.
Stability Assessment of Candidate Reference Genes in Urine Sediment of Prostate Cancer Patients for miRNA Applications.
Increased Serum Interleukin-9 Levels in Rheumatoid Arthritis and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus: Pathogenic Role or Just an Epiphenomenon?
OGG1 Mutations and Risk of Female Breast Cancer: Meta-Analysis and Experimental Data.
Response to: Comment on “Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio and Platelet-to-Lymphocyte Ratio: Novel Markers for Diagnosis and Prognosis in Patients with Idiopathic Sudden Sensorineural Hearing Loss”.
Th1, Th2, and Th17 Cytokine Involvement in Thyroid Associated Ophthalmopathy.
The Expression of Notch/Notch Ligand, IL-35, IL-17, and Th17/Treg in Preeclampsia.
Genome-Wide Scan for Methylation Profiles in Keloids.
Clinical Implications and Prognostic Values of Prostate Cancer Susceptibility Candidate Methylation in Primary Nonmuscle Invasive Bladder Cancer.
Predictive Levels of CD24 in Peripheral Blood Leukocytes for the Early Detection of Colorectal Adenomas and Adenocarcinomas.
Vitamin D Is a Good Marker for Disease Activity of Rheumatoid Arthritis Disease.
Prognostic Value of MicroRNA-182 in Cancers: A Meta-Analysis.
Monocyte Proteomics Reveals Involvement of Phosphorylated HSP27 in the Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis.
The Value of Circulating Nogo-B for Evaluating Hepatic Functional Reserve in Patients with Cirrhosis.
Expression of Spindle and Kinetochore-Associated Protein 1 Is Associated with Poor Prognosis in Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma.
Ventilatory Efficiency in Children and Adolescents: A Systematic Review.
Circulating MicroRNA-21 Is a Potential Diagnostic Biomarker in Gastric Cancer.
Association between Programmed Cell Death 6 Interacting Protein Insertion/Deletion Polymorphism and the Risk of Breast Cancer in a Sample of Iranian Population.
The Role of Power Doppler Ultrasonography as Disease Activity Marker in Rheumatoid Arthritis.
Overexpression of Growth-Related Oncogene-β Is Associated with Tumorigenesis, Metastasis, and Poor Prognosis in Ovarian Cancer.
Dynamic Changes, Cut-Off Points, Sensitivity, and Specificity of Laboratory Data to Differentiate Macrophage Activation Syndrome from Active Disease.
Frequency of Surgery in Black Patients with Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma.
Serum Enzyme Profiles Differentiate Five Types of Muscular Dystrophy.
Elevated ZNF703 Protein Expression Is an Independent Unfavorable Prognostic Factor for Survival of the Patients with Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma.
Effect of Extended-Release Niacin/Laropiprant Combination on Plasma Adiponectin and Insulin Resistance in Chinese Patients with Dyslipidaemia.
High-Throughput Screening for Biomarker Discovery.
Novel Serum Biomarkers to Differentiate Cholangiocarcinoma from Benign Biliary Tract Diseases Using a Proteomic Approach.
Proteomics in Cancer Biomarkers Discovery: Challenges and Applications.
Omics-Based Identification of Biomarkers for Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma.
Analysis of Serum MicroRNAs as Potential Biomarker in Coronary Bifurcation Lesion.
Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Human Cholangiocarcinoma Cell Lines: S100A2 as a Potential Candidate Protein Inducer of Invasion.
Polymorphisms in C-Reactive Protein and Glypican-5 Are Associated with Lung Cancer Risk and Gartrokine-1 Influences Cisplatin-Based Chemotherapy Response in a Chinese Han Population.
Altered Chromogranin A Circulating Levels in Meniere's Disease.
Predictive Performance of a Seven-Plex Antibody Array in Prenatal Screening for Down Syndrome.
First-Trimester Uterine Artery Doppler Analysis in the Prediction of Later Pregnancy Complications.
Macrophage Migration Inhibitory Factor Promoter Polymorphisms (−794 CATT5–8 and −173 G>C): Relationship with mRNA Expression and Soluble MIF Levels in Young Obese Subjects.
Cardiac Biomarkers.
Diagnostic Implications of an Elevated Troponin in the Emergency Department.
Evaluation of High Sensitive Troponin in Erectile Dysfunction.
Short Communication: Relationship between Urinary Neutrophil Gelatinase-Associated Lipocalin and Noninfectious Pyuria in Dogs.
Association between Plasma Fibrinogen Levels and Mortality in Acute-on-Chronic Hepatitis B Liver Failure.
NT-proBNP as Early Marker of Subclinical Late Cardiotoxicity after Doxorubicin Therapy and Mediastinal Irradiation in Childhood Cancer Survivors.
Biomarkers of Hemodynamic Stress and Aortic Stiffness after STEMI: A Cross-Sectional Analysis.
Prognostic Value of Galectin-3 in Patients with Heart Failure.
Copeptin Testing in Acute Myocardial Infarction: Ready for Routine Use?
Association of High Expression of Groβ with Clinical and Pathological Characteristics of Unfavorable Prognosis in Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors.
Vimentin 3, the New Hope, Differentiating RCC versus Oncocytoma.
The Relationship between Clinical Feature, Complex Immunophenotype, Chromosome Karyotype, and Outcome of Patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia in China.
Characterization of Clinical and Genetic Risk Factors Associated with Dyslipidemia after Kidney Transplantation.
CYP7A1 Gene Polymorphism Located in the 5′ Upstream Region Modifies the Risk of Coronary Artery Disease.
Chaperonin-Containing t-Complex Protein-1 Subunit β as a Possible Biomarker for the Phase of Glomerular Hyperfiltration of Diabetic Nephropathy.
Cardiovascular Biomarkers in Chronic Kidney Disease: State of Current Research and Clinical Applicability.
Serum and Urine Biomarkers for Human Renal Cell Carcinoma.
Overexpression of FRAT1 Is Associated with Malignant Phenotype and Poor Prognosis in Human Gliomas.
Prognostic Value of Pentraxin-3 Level in Patients with STEMI and Its Relationship with Heart Failure and Markers of Oxidative Stress.
Long-Term Outcomes of Hepatic Resection versus Living Donor Liver Transplantation for Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Propensity Score-Matching Study.
Assessment of Glomerular Filtration Rate Based on Alterations of Serum Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor in Type 2 Diabetic Subjects Treated with Amlodipine/Benazepril or Valsartan/Hydrochlorothiazide.
MicroRNA-155 Hallmarks Promising Accuracy for the Diagnosis of Various Carcinomas: Results from a Meta-Analysis.
The Analysis of Sialylation, N-Glycan Branching, and Expression of O-Glycans in Seminal Plasma of Infertile Men.
Prevalence and Prognostic Implications of Vitamin D Deficiency in Chronic Kidney Disease.
miR-34a Inhibits Proliferation and Invasion of Bladder Cancer Cells by Targeting Orphan Nuclear Receptor HNF4G.
The Apolipoprotein B/Apolipoprotein A-I Ratio as a Potential Marker of Plasma Atherogenicity.
The Diagnostic Accuracy of HE4 in Lung Cancer: A Meta-Analysis.
Circulating Soluble Neuropilin-1 in Patients with Early Cervical Cancer and Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia Can Be Used as a Valuable Diagnostic Biomarker.
Assessment of Cell-Cycle Arrest Biomarkers to Predict Early and Delayed Acute Kidney Injury.
Twenty-Four-Hour Urine Osmolality as a Physiological Index of Adequate Water Intake.
Immunohistochemical Expression of Survivin and Its Relationship with Cell Apoptosis and Proliferation in Ameloblastomas.
Biomarkers of Lung Injury in Cardiothoracic Surgery.
Comment on “System Accuracy Evaluation of the GlucoRx Nexus Voice TD-4280 Blood Glucose Monitoring System”.
Serum Creatinine Level: A Supplemental Index to Distinguish Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy from Becker Muscular Dystrophy.
Vascular Effects of Advanced Glycation End-Products: Content of Immunohistochemically Detected AGEs in Radial Artery Samples as a Predictor for Arterial Calcification and Cardiovascular Risk in Asymptomatic Patients with Chronic Kidney Disease.
Procalcitonin Levels in Gram-Positive, Gram-Negative, and Fungal Bloodstream Infections.
Serum Metabolites as Potential Biomarkers for Diagnosis of Knee Osteoarthritis.
Procalcitonin Improves the Glasgow Prognostic Score for Outcome Prediction in Emergency Patients with Cancer: A Cohort Study.
Measurement of Cytokines and Adhesion Molecules in the First 72 Hours after Severe Trauma: Association with Severity and Outcome.
MHC Class I Chain-Related Gene A Diversity in Patients with Cutaneous Malignant Melanoma from Southeastern Spain.
The Effect of Depression on Serum VEGF Level in Alzheimer's Disease.
Resistin, Visfatin, Adiponectin, and Leptin: Risk of Breast Cancer in Pre- and Postmenopausal Saudi Females and Their Possible Diagnostic and Predictive Implications as Novel Biomarkers.
Difference in the Prognostic Significance of N-Terminal Pro-B-Type Natriuretic Peptide between Cardioembolic and Noncardioembolic Ischemic Strokes.
Capillary Deposition of Complement C4d and C3d in Chinese Renal Allograft Biopsies.
Blockade of Aquaporin 1 Inhibits Proliferation, Motility, and Metastatic Potential of Mesothelioma In Vitro but not in an In Vivo Model.
α-2-Macroglobulin in Saliva Is Associated with Glycemic Control in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus.
Physical Activity Enhances Metabolic Fitness Independently of Cardiorespiratory Fitness in Marathon Runners.
3-Nitrotyrosine Modified Proteins in Atherosclerosis.
BRCA Genetic Screening in Middle Eastern and North African: Mutational Spectrum and Founder BRCA1 Mutation (c.798_799delTT) in North African.
Effect of Periodontal Surgery on Osteoprotegerin Levels in Gingival Crevicular Fluid, Saliva, and Gingival Tissues of Chronic Periodontitis Patients.
Secernin-1 Contributes to Colon Cancer Progression through Enhancing Matrix Metalloproteinase-2/9 Exocytosis.
Identification of Endogenous Controls for Analyzing Serum Exosomal miRNA in Patients with Hepatitis B or Hepatocellular Carcinoma.
Coenzyme Q10, α-Tocopherol, and Oxidative Stress Could Be Important Metabolic Biomarkers of Male Infertility.
VEGF Overexpression Is a Valuable Prognostic Factor for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma Evidence from a Systemic Meta-Analysis.
Circulating MicroRNA-223 Serum Levels Do Not Predict Sepsis or Survival in Patients with Critical Illness.
Polymorphisms rs12998 and rs5780218 in KiSS1 Suppressor Metastasis Gene in Mexican Patients with Breast Cancer.
Identification of Differentially Expressed Genes Associated with Prognosis of B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.
Polymorphisms in the IFNγ, IL-10, and TGFβ Genes May Be Associated with HIV-1 Infection.
Detection of SNCA and FBN1 Methylation in the Stool as a Biomarker for Colorectal Cancer.
The Affymetrix DMET Plus Platform Reveals Unique Distribution of ADME-Related Variants in Ethnic Arabs.
The -844 G>A PAI-1 Polymorphism Is Associated with Acute Coronary Syndrome in Mexican Population.
Comment on “Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio and Platelet-to-Lymphocyte Ratio: Novel Markers for Diagnosis and Prognosis in Patients with Idiopathic Sudden Sensorineural Hearing Loss”.
The Influence of Vitamin D Receptor Genetic Variants on Bone Mineral Density and Osteoporosis in Chinese Postmenopausal Women.
Sequence Variants of Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor-Gamma Gene and the Clinical Courses of Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease.
Albumin-to-Alkaline Phosphatase Ratio: A Novel Prognostic Index for Hepatocellular Carcinoma.
Prognostic Utility of Vitamin D in Acute Coronary Syndrome Patients in Coastal Norway.
Can Biomarkers Help to Diagnose Early Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction?
In Vitro Sensitivity of Paired Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis Samples Isolated before Meglumine Antimoniate Treatment and after Treatment Failure or Reactivation of Cutaneous Leishmaniasis.
MTHFR C677T Gene Polymorphism and Head and Neck Cancer Risk: A Meta-Analysis Based on 23 Publications.
The Prognostic Value of Intermedin in Patients with Breast Cancer.
Correlation between Sperm Parameters and Protein Expression of Antioxidative Defense Enzymes in Seminal Plasma: A Pilot Study.
Next Generation Sequencing to Determine the Cystic Fibrosis Mutation Spectrum in Palestinian Population.
Fatigue in Patients with Multiple Sclerosis: Is It Related to Pro- and Anti-Inflammatory Cytokines?
High CD133 Expression in the Nucleus and Cytoplasm Predicts Poor Prognosis in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer.
Study on the Usefulness of APR Scores from the Viewpoint of Proinflammatory Cytokines.
Nasal Potential Difference in Cystic Fibrosis considering Severe CFTR Mutations.
Microinflammation Factors in the Common Diseases of the Heart and Kidneys.
Association between BMP4 rs17563 Polymorphism and NSCL/P Risk: A Meta-Analysis.
Validation of Serum Biomarkers Derived from Proteomic Analysis for the Early Screening of Preeclampsia.
