Small Non-coding Transfer RNA-Derived RNA Fragments (tRFs): Their Biogenesis, Function and Implication in Human Diseases.
Editor's Introduction to This Issue.
ERRATUM: Acknowledgments Correction. Cell-Free miR-27a, a Potential Diagnostic and Prognostic Biomarker for Gastric Cancer.
Building the Frequency Profile of the Core Promoter Element Patterns in the Three ChromHMM Promoter States at 200bp Intervals: A Statistical Perspective.
Heritability Estimated Using 50K SNPs Indicates Missing Heritability Problem in Holstein Breeding.
Prediction of Genes Related to Positive Selection Using Whole-Genome Resequencing in Three Commercial Pig Breeds.
Expressional Subpopulation of Cancers Determined by G64, a Co-regulated Module.
Association of HLA Genotype and Fulminant Type 1 Diabetes in Koreans.
Analysis of Whole Transcriptome Sequencing Data: Workflow and Software.
Introns: The Functional Benefits of Introns in Genomes.
Role of Chromosome Changes in Crocodylus Evolution and Diversity.
VBioindex: A Visual Tool to Estimate Biodiversity.
A Database of Gene Expression Profiles of Korean Cancer Genome.
Efficiency to Discovery Transgenic Loci in GM Rice Using Next Generation Sequencing Whole Genome Re-sequencing.
The Construction of Regulatory Network for Insulin-Mediated Genes by Integrating Methods Based on Transcription Factor Binding Motifs and Gene Expression Variations.
Cell-Free miR-27a, a Potential Diagnostic and Prognostic Biomarker for Gastric Cancer.
Editor's Introduction to This Issue.
In Silico Docking to Explicate Interface between Plant-Originated Inhibitors and E6 Oncogenic Protein of Highly Threatening Human Papillomavirus 18.
In Silico Structural and Functional Annotation of Hypothetical Proteins of Vibrio cholerae O139.
Elucidation of the Molecular Interaction between miRNAs and the HOXA9 Gene, Involved in Acute Myeloid Leukemia, by the Assistance of Argonaute Protein through a Computational Approach.
Genetic Architecture of Transcription and Chromatin Regulation.
Effect of Next-Generation Exome Sequencing Depth for Discovery of Diagnostic Variants.
A Novel Type of Non-coding RNA, nc886, Implicated in Tumor Sensing and Suppression.
Editor's Introduction to This Issue.
An Ontology-Based GIS for Genomic Data Management of Rumen Microbes.
Genes Involved in the Biosynthesis and Transport of Acinetobactin in Acinetobacter baumannii.
Comparative Modeling and Molecular Dynamics Simulation of Substrate Binding in Human Fatty Acid Synthase: Enoyl Reductase and β-Ketoacyl Reductase Catalytic Domains.
Editor's Introduction to This Issue.
