ConBind: motif-aware cross-species alignment for the identification of functional transcription factor binding sites.
Hepatoma-derived growth factor-related protein 2 promotes DNA repair by homologous recombination.
Multisite-specific archaeosine tRNA-guanine transglycosylase (ArcTGT) from Thermoplasma acidophilum, a thermo-acidophilic archaeon.
Dynamics and recognition within a protein–DNA complex: a molecular dynamics study of the SKN-1/DNA interaction.
Shade avoidance 6 encodes an Arabidopsis flap endonuclease required for maintenance of genome integrity and development.
The cellular growth rate controls overall mRNA turnover, and modulates either transcription or degradation rates of particular gene regulons.
Sliding of a 43S ribosomal complex from the recognized AUG codon triggered by a delay in eIF2-bound GTP hydrolysis.
The first crystal structures of RNA–PNA duplexes and a PNA-PNA duplex containing mismatches—toward anti-sense therapy against TREDs.
The RNA-binding protein LARP1 is a post-transcriptional regulator of survival and tumorigenesis in ovarian cancer.
The use of modified and non-natural nucleotides provide unique insights into pro-mutagenic replication catalyzed by polymerase eta.
Epigenome-wide effects of vitamin D and their impact on the transcriptome of human monocytes involve CTCF.
Structure of the hypusinylated eukaryotic translation factor eIF-5A bound to the ribosome.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 44 DATABASE ISSUE JANUARY 4 2016.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
The 2016 database issue of Nucleic Acids Research and an updated molecular biology database collection.
Nuclear factor 90 uses an ADAR2-like binding mode to recognize specific bases in dsRNA.
Phosphorylation of Ku dictates DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair pathway choice in S phase.
TCGAbiolinks: an R/Bioconductor package for integrative analysis of TCGA data.
Dicer interacts with SIRT7 and regulates H3K18 deacetylation in response to DNA damaging agents.
Involvement of condensin-directed gene associations in the organization and regulation of chromosome territories during the cell cycle.
Evidence for a non-canonical role of HDAC5 in regulation of the cardiac Ncx1 and Bnp genes.
TopDom: an efficient and deterministic method for identifying topological domains in genomes.
Integrating gene synthesis and microfluidic protein analysis for rapid protein engineering.
Standardizing chromatin research: a simple and universal method for ChIP-seq.
Enhanced sequencing coverage with digital droplet multiple displacement amplification.
ChIP-BIT: Bayesian inference of target genes using a novel joint probabilistic model of ChIP-seq profiles.
Effects of tRNA modification on translational accuracy depend on intrinsic codon–anticodon strength.
A genome landscape of SRSF3-regulated splicing events and gene expression in human osteosarcoma U2OS cells.
PARP-2 domain requirements for DNA damage-dependent activation and localization to sites of DNA damage.
The crystal structure of yeast mitochondrial ThrRS in complex with the canonical threonine tRNA.
Coexistence of coil and globule domains within a single confined DNA chain.
Precision methylome characterization of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) using PacBio single-molecule real-time (SMRT) technology.
Periodic-shRNA molecules are capable of gene silencing, cytotoxicity and innate immune activation in cancer cells.
OxyR-dependent formation of DNA methylation patterns in OpvABOFF and OpvABON cell lineages of Salmonella enterica.
Controlled DNA double-strand break induction in mice reveals post-damage transcriptome stability.
SimRNA: a coarse-grained method for RNA folding simulations and 3D structure prediction.
Temporal dynamics of methyltransferase and restriction endonuclease accumulation in individual cells after introducing a restriction-modification system.
Ensembl 2016.
Genome-wide analysis reveals NRP1 as a direct HIF1α-E2F7 target in the regulation of motorneuron guidance in vivo.
Transcriptional regulatory networks in Arabidopsis thaliana during single and combined stresses.
Endoplasmic reticulum stress increases AT1R mRNA expression via TIA-1-dependent mechanism.
Locking-to-unlocking system is an efficient strategy to design DNA/silver nanoclusters (AgNCs) probe for human miRNAs.
The spliceosome-associated protein Nrl1 suppresses homologous recombination-dependent R-loop formation in fission yeast.
Binding of transcription factor GabR to DNA requires recognition of DNA shape at a location distinct from its cognate binding site.
Biogenesis and growth phase-dependent alteration of 5-methoxycarbonylmethoxyuridine in tRNA anticodons.
piggyBac transposons expressing full-length human dystrophin enable genetic correction of dystrophic mesoangioblasts.
Cancer-predisposition gene KLLN maintains pericentric H3K9 trimethylation protecting genomic stability.
Dynamic recruitment of Ets1 to both nucleosome-occupied and -depleted enhancer regions mediates a transcriptional program switch during early T-cell differentiation.
The Arabidopsis homologs of trithorax (ATX1) and enhancer of zeste (CLF) establish ‘bivalent chromatin marks’ at the silent AGAMOUS locus.
A comprehensive comparison of general RNA–RNA interaction prediction methods.
A transcription-independent epigenetic mechanism is associated with antigenic switching in Trypanosoma brucei.
Directing an artificial zinc finger protein to new targets by fusion to a non-DNA-binding domain.
The histone chaperone sNASP binds a conserved peptide motif within the globular core of histone H3 through its TPR repeats.
Differential contribution of cis-regulatory elements to higher order chromatin structure and expression of the CFTR locus.
Transcriptional, post-transcriptional and chromatin-associated regulation of pri-miRNAs, pre-miRNAs and moRNAs.
The de-ubiquitylating enzymes USP26 and USP37 regulate homologous recombination by counteracting RAP80.
Single molecule detection of PARP1 and PARP2 interaction with DNA strand breaks and their poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation using high-resolution AFM imaging.
A mass spectrometry-based method for direct determination of pseudouridine in RNA.
Conservative site-specific and single-copy transgenesis in human LINE-1 elements.
Synthetic dual-input mammalian genetic circuits enable tunable and stringent transcription control by chemical and light.
Circularization pathway of a bacterial group II intron.
The structural diversity of artificial genetic polymers.
Readers of poly(ADP-ribose): designed to be fit for purpose.
Structural requirements for protein-catalyzed annealing of U4 and U6 RNAs during di-snRNP assembly.
Functional dissection of a plant Argonaute.
Structure and stereochemistry of the base excision repair glycosylase MutY reveal a mechanism similar to retaining glycosidases.
DNA recognition for virus assembly through multiple sequence-independent interactions with a helix-turn-helix motif.
Cold-inducible RNA-binding protein CIRP/hnRNP A18 regulates telomerase activity in a temperature-dependent manner.
Different duplex/quadruplex junctions determine the properties of anti-thrombin aptamers with mixed folding.
A novel RNA-binding mode of the YTH domain reveals the mechanism for recognition of determinant of selective removal by Mmi1.
Structural and functional insights into tRNA binding and adenosine N1-methylation by an archaeal Trm10 homologue.
G-quadruplexes with (4n - 1) guanines in the G-tetrad core: formation of a G-triad·water complex and implication for small-molecule binding.
MethylAction: detecting differentially methylated regions that distinguish biological subtypes.
Cap homeostasis is independent of poly(A) tail length.
MMB-GUI: a fast morphing method demonstrates a possible ribosomal tRNA translocation trajectory.
L1 retrotransposition requires rapid ORF1p oligomerization, a novel coiled coil-dependent property conserved despite extensive remodeling.
A human transcription factor in search mode.
The European Bioinformatics Institute in 2016: Data growth and integration.
The Pfam protein families database: towards a more sustainable future.
GtRNAdb 2.0: an expanded database of transfer RNA genes identified in complete and draft genomes.
canSAR: an updated cancer research and drug discovery knowledgebase.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 22 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Quantification of transcription factor-DNA binding affinity in a living cell.
Integrin α4β1 controls G9a activity that regulates epigenetic changes and nuclear properties required for lymphocyte migration.
Comparison of circular RNA prediction tools.
Assays for DNA double-strand break repair by microhomology-based end-joining repair mechanisms.
Improved methods of AAV-mediated gene targeting for human cell lines using ribosome-skipping 2A peptide.
Chemo-enzymatic synthesis of site-specific isotopically labeled nucleotides for use in NMR resonance assignment, dynamics and structural characterizations.
Exchange between Escherichia coli polymerases II and III on a processivity clamp.
Circular RNAs are long-lived and display only minimal early alterations in response to a growth factor.
Targeted cross-linking-mass spectrometry determines vicinal interactomes within heterogeneous RNP complexes.
Human polypyrimidine tract-binding protein interacts with mitochondrial tRNAThr in the cytosol.
Taking a molecular motor for a spin: helicase mechanism studied by spin labeling and PELDOR.
Concerted removal of the Erb1–Ytm1 complex in ribosome biogenesis relies on an elaborate interface.
Temperature dependent mistranslation in a hyperthermophile adapts proteins to lower temperatures.
B′-protein phosphatase 2A is a functional binding partner of delta-retroviral integrase.
A DNAzyme requiring two different metal ions at two distinct sites.
HaploReg v4: systematic mining of putative causal variants, cell types, regulators and target genes for human complex traits and disease.
The International Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration.
Editorial: NAR Awards 2015.
Linc-RoR promotes c-Myc expression through hnRNP I and AUF1.
A novel role for CARM1 in promoting nonsense-mediated mRNA decay: potential implications for spinal muscular atrophy.
Natural C-independent expression of restriction endonuclease in a C protein-associated restriction-modification system.
KRAS promoter oligonucleotide with decoy activity dimerizes into a unique topology consisting of two G-quadruplex units.
Probing the reactivity of singlet oxygen with purines.
RNA-seq reveals post-transcriptional regulation of Drosophila insulin-like peptide dilp8 and the neuropeptide-like precursor Nplp2 by the exoribonuclease Pacman/XRN1.
Dealing with the genetic load in bacterial synthetic biology circuits: convergences with the Ohm's law.
The Reactome pathway Knowledgebase.
An updated version of NPIDB includes new classifications of DNA–protein complexes and their families.
GeneWeaver: data driven alignment of cross-species genomics in biology and disease.
The MG-RAST metagenomics database and portal in 2015.
ATP dependent NS3 helicase interaction with RNA: insights from molecular simulations.
Prioritizing and selecting likely novel miRNAs from NGS data.
Integrated microfluidic approach for quantitative high-throughput measurements of transcription factor binding affinities.
The expression of a viral microRNA is regulated by clustering to allow optimal B cell transformation.
On the role of steric clashes in methylation control of restriction endonuclease activity.
Systematic identification and annotation of human methylation marks based on bisulfite sequencing methylomes reveals distinct roles of cell type-specific hypomethylation in the regulation of cell identity genes.
COMBREX-DB: an experiment centered database of protein function: knowledge, predictions and knowledge gaps.
DriverDBv2: a database for human cancer driver gene research.
RBP-Var: a database of functional variants involved in regulation mediated by RNA-binding proteins.
LOOP IIId of the HCV IRES is essential for the structural rearrangement of the 40S-HCV IRES complex.
Exploded view of higher order G-quadruplex structures through click-chemistry assisted single-molecule mechanical unfolding.
Bivalent interaction of the PZP domain of BRPF1 with the nucleosome impacts chromatin dynamics and acetylation.
Automated physics-based design of synthetic riboswitches from diverse RNA aptamers.
MERAV: a tool for comparing gene expression across human tissues and cell types.
Where does transcription start? 5′-RACE adapted to next-generation sequencing.
The long noncoding RNA Gm15055 represses Hoxa gene expression by recruiting PRC2 to the gene cluster.
Analysis of long-range interactions in primary human cells identifies cooperative CFTR regulatory elements.
Nucleolar responses to DNA double-strand breaks.
Folding dynamics and conformational heterogeneity of human telomeric G-quadruplex structures in Na+ solutions by single molecule FRET microscopy.
Tetramerization and interdomain flexibility of the replication initiation controller YabA enables simultaneous binding to multiple partners.
StreptomeDB 2.0—an extended resource of natural products produced by streptomycetes.
GWASdb v2: an update database for human genetic variants identified by genome-wide association studies.
PDBFlex: exploring flexibility in protein structures.
EK3D: an E. coli K antigen 3-dimensional structure database.
Biocuration of functional annotation at the European nucleotide archive.
The SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics’ resources: focus on curated databases.
ELM 2016—data update and new functionality of the eukaryotic linear motif resource.
Database resources of the National Center for Biotechnology Information.
Substantial DNA methylation differences between two major neuronal subtypes in human brain.
Regulation of mammalian transcription and splicing by Nuclear RNAi.
The autoinhibitory CARD2-Hel2i Interface of RIG-I governs RNA selection.
A general strategy to inhibiting viral −1 frameshifting based on upstream attenuation duplex formation.
BIGNASim: a NoSQL database structure and analysis portal for nucleic acids simulation data.
The Dfam database of repetitive DNA families.
DIANA-LncBase v2: indexing microRNA targets on non-coding transcripts.
Ribonucleoprotein particles of bacterial small non-coding RNA IsrA (IS61 or McaS) and its interaction with RNA polymerase core may link transcription to mRNA fate.
Genome-wide analysis of the specificity and mechanisms of replication infidelity driven by imbalanced dNTP pools.
Functional dichotomy in the 16S rRNA (m1A1408) methyltransferase family and control of catalytic activity via a novel tryptophan mediated loop reorganization.
The 3D folding of metazoan genomes correlates with the association of similar repetitive elements.
Effects of cooperation between translating ribosome and RNA polymerase on termination efficiency of the Rho-independent terminator.
Systematic identification and correction of annotation errors in the genetic interaction map of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Gbp2 interacts with THO/TREX through a novel type of RRM domain.
Signature motifs of GDP polyribonucleotidyltransferase, a non-segmented negative strand RNA viral mRNA capping enzyme, domain in the L protein are required for covalent enzyme–pRNA intermediate formation.
TCGASpliceSeq a compendium of alternative mRNA splicing in cancer.
Aging Chart: a community resource for rapid exploratory pathway analysis of age-related processes.
Cancer RNA-Seq Nexus: a database of phenotype-specific transcriptome profiling in cancer cells.
APD3: the antimicrobial peptide database as a tool for research and education.
PSORTdb: expanding the bacteria and archaea protein subcellular localization database to better reflect diversity in cell envelope structures.
AREsite2: an enhanced database for the comprehensive investigation of AU/GU/U-rich elements.
Developmental progress and current status of the Animal QTLdb.
Modeling co-occupancy of transcription factors using chromatin features.
Evolution of disorder in Mediator complex and its functional relevance.
CancerResource—updated database of cancer-relevant proteins, mutations and interacting drugs.
UET: a database of evolutionarily-predicted functional determinants of protein sequences that cluster as functional sites in protein structures.
STITCH 5: augmenting protein–chemical interaction networks with tissue and affinity data.
GenBank.
The UCSC Genome Browser database: 2016 update.
FunTree: advances in a resource for exploring and contextualising protein function evolution.
deepBase v2.0: identification, expression, evolution and function of small RNAs, LncRNAs and circular RNAs from deep-sequencing data.
EffectiveDB—updates and novel features for a better annotation of bacterial secreted proteins and Type III, IV, VI secretion systems.
TSGene 2.0: an updated literature-based knowledgebase for tumor suppressor genes.
SBR-Blood: systems biology repository for hematopoietic cells.
miRTarBase 2016: updates to the experimentally validated miRNA-target interactions database.
Lynx: a knowledge base and an analytical workbench for integrative medicine.
MitoAge: a database for comparative analysis of mitochondrial DNA, with a special focus on animal longevity.
MutationAligner: a resource of recurrent mutation hotspots in protein domains in cancer.
Comparative genomic analyses reveal a vast, novel network of nucleotide-centric systems in biological conflicts, immunity and signaling.
A novel role for the histone acetyltransferase Hat1 in the CENP-A/CID assembly pathway in Drosophila melanogaster.
Estimate of within population incremental selection through branch imbalance in lineage trees.
CPPsite 2.0: a repository of experimentally validated cell-penetrating peptides.
BreCAN-DB: a repository cum browser of personalized DNA breakpoint profiles of cancer genomes.
DIANA-miRGen v3.0: accurate characterization of microRNA promoters and their regulators.
NONCODE 2016: an informative and valuable data source of long non-coding RNAs.
COLOMBOS v3.0: leveraging gene expression compendia for cross-species analyses.
HOCOMOCO: expansion and enhancement of the collection of transcription factor binding sites models.
probeBase—an online resource for rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide probes and primers: new features 2016.
<mds_ies_db>: a database of ciliate genome rearrangements.
The anatomical distribution of genetic associations.
Foreign DNA acquisition by the I-F CRISPR–Cas system requires all components of the interference machinery.
CRISPR interference and priming varies with individual spacer sequences.
The methyltransferase domain of dengue virus protein NS5 ensures efficient RNA synthesis initiation and elongation by the polymerase domain.
Phosphorylation of the chromatin remodeling factor DPF3a induces cardiac hypertrophy through releasing HEY repressors from DNA.
Structure and specificity of the RNA-guided endonuclease Cas9 during DNA interrogation, target binding and cleavage.
Improved knockdown from artificial microRNAs in an enhanced miR-155 backbone: a designer's guide to potent multi-target RNAi.
The quorum-sensing regulator ComA from Bacillus subtilis activates transcription using topologically distinct DNA motifs.
Comprehensive evaluation of fusion transcript detection algorithms and a meta-caller to combine top performing methods in paired-end RNA-seq data.
RING1A and BMI1 bookmark active genes via ubiquitination of chromatin-associated proteins.
The CSB chromatin remodeler and CTCF architectural protein cooperate in response to oxidative stress.
The nucleosome landscape of Plasmodium falciparum reveals chromatin architecture and dynamics of regulatory sequences.
Hydroxymethyluracil modifications enhance the flexibility and hydrophilicity of double-stranded DNA.
csaw: a Bioconductor package for differential binding analysis of ChIP-seq data using sliding windows.
Simultaneous characterization of sense and antisense genomic processes by the double-stranded hidden Markov model.
An ultra-dense library resource for rapid deconvolution of mutations that cause phenotypes in Escherichia coli.
Control of alternative end joining by the chromatin remodeler p400 ATPase.
Genome-wide binding studies reveal DNA binding specificity mechanisms and functional interplay amongst Forkhead transcription factors.
BubbleTree: an intuitive visualization to elucidate tumoral aneuploidy and clonality using next generation sequencing data.
DNA-PK triggers histone ubiquitination and signaling in response to DNA double-strand breaks produced during the repair of transcription-blocking topoisomerase I lesions.
HMGB1 interacts with XPA to facilitate the processing of DNA interstrand crosslinks in human cells.
Multiple Cis-acting elements modulate programmed -1 ribosomal frameshifting in Pea enation mosaic virus.
Cellular localization of long non-coding RNAs affects silencing by RNAi more than by antisense oligonucleotides.
Nucleotide modifications within bacterial messenger RNAs regulate their translation and are able to rewire the genetic code.
Mcm10 coordinates the timely assembly and activation of the replication fork helicase.
Bioinformatic tools for microRNA dissection.
Death of a dogma: eukaryotic mRNAs can code for more than one protein.
piRNA cluster database: a web resource for piRNA producing loci.
SureChEMBL: a large-scale, chemically annotated patent document database.
The Saccharomyces Genome Database Variant Viewer.
eggNOG 4.5: a hierarchical orthology framework with improved functional annotations for eukaryotic, prokaryotic and viral sequences.
SugarBindDB, a resource of glycan-mediated host–pathogen interactions.
HGTree: database of horizontally transferred genes determined by tree reconciliation.
SEA: a super-enhancer archive.
dbPTM 2016: 10-year anniversary of a resource for post-translational modification of proteins.
VFDB 2016: hierarchical and refined dataset for big data analysis—10 years on.
LegumeIP 2.0—a platform for the study of gene function and genome evolution in legumes.
iGNM 2.0: the Gaussian network model database for biomolecular structural dynamics.
Gene3D: expanding the utility of domain assignments.
Therapeutic target database update 2016: enriched resource for bench to clinical drug target and targeted pathway information.
enviPath – The environmental contaminant biotransformation pathway resource.
WeGET: predicting new genes for molecular systems by weighted co-expression.
Enhanced annotations and features for comparing thousands of Pseudomonas genomes in the Pseudomonas genome database.
Assembly: a resource for assembled genomes at NCBI.
ClinVar: public archive of interpretations of clinically relevant variants.
SomamiR 2.0: a database of cancer somatic mutations altering microRNA–ceRNA interactions.
WormBase 2016: expanding to enable helminth genomic research.
HPMCD: the database of human microbial communities from metagenomic datasets and microbial reference genomes.
GREENC: a Wiki-based database of plant lncRNAs.
Mouse genome database 2016.
Ensembl Genomes 2016: more genomes, more complexity.
Hymenoptera Genome Database: integrating genome annotations in HymenopteraMine.
InsectBase: a resource for insect genomes and transcriptomes.
ORegAnno 3.0: a community-driven resource for curated regulatory annotation.
EBI metagenomics in 2016 - an expanding and evolving resource for the analysis and archiving of metagenomic data.
PANTHER version 10: expanded protein families and functions, and analysis tools.
Start2Fold: a database of hydrogen/deuterium exchange data on protein folding and stability.
GPCRdb: an information system for G protein-coupled receptors.
DBAASP v.2: an enhanced database of structure and antimicrobial/cytotoxic activity of natural and synthetic peptides.
PlanMine – a mineable resource of planarian biology and biodiversity.
PCOSKB: A KnowledgeBase on genes, diseases, ontology terms and biochemical pathways associated with PolyCystic Ovary Syndrome.
EMDataBank unified data resource for 3DEM.
DNA data bank of Japan (DDBJ) progress report.
BioGPS: building your own mash-up of gene annotations and expression profiles.
The structures of the SNM1A and SNM1B/Apollo nuclease domains reveal a potential basis for their distinct DNA processing activities.
Probing the active site tryptophan of Staphylococcus aureus thioredoxin with an analog.
Binding dynamics of a monomeric SSB protein to DNA: a single-molecule multi-process approach.
Site-specific replacement of the thymine methyl group by fluorine in thrombin binding aptamer significantly improves structural stability and anticoagulant activity.
Different genome stability proteins underpin primed and naïve adaptation in E. coli CRISPR-Cas immunity.
Structural basis for RNA-genome recognition during bacteriophage Qβ replication.
GEN1 promotes Holliday junction resolution by a coordinated nick and counter-nick mechanism.
RNAi revised - target mRNA-dependent enhancement of gene silencing.
Unique transposon landscapes are pervasive across Drosophila melanogaster genomes.
Discover hidden splicing variations by mapping personal transcriptomes to personal genomes.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 20 2015.
The casposon-encoded Cas1 protein from Aciduliprofundum boonei is a DNA integrase that generates target site duplications.
GEneSTATION 1.0: a synthetic resource of diverse evolutionary and functional genomic data for studying the evolution of pregnancy-associated tissues and phenotypes.
Hepatotoxicity of high affinity gapmer antisense oligonucleotides is mediated by RNase H1 dependent promiscuous reduction of very long pre-mRNA transcripts.
Multiplex pairwise assembly of array-derived DNA oligonucleotides.
Binding of 14-3-3 reader proteins to phosphorylated DNMT1 facilitates aberrant DNA methylation and gene expression.
Theoretical estimates of exposure timescales of protein binding sites on DNA regulated by nucleosome kinetics.
A novel conceptual approach to read-filtering in high-throughput amplicon sequencing studies.
A dynamic checkpoint in oxidative lesion discrimination by formamidopyrimidine–DNA glycosylase.
PASS2 database for the structure-based sequence alignment of distantly related SCOP domain superfamilies: update to version 5 and added features.
The Degradome database: expanding roles of mammalian proteases in life and disease.
WITHDRAWN—a resource for withdrawn and discontinued drugs.
Reference sequence (RefSeq) database at NCBI: current status, taxonomic expansion, and functional annotation.
DASHR: database of small human noncoding RNAs.
InterRNA: a database of base interactions in RNA structures.
Gramene 2016: comparative plant genomics and pathway resources.
An endogenous protein inhibitor, YjhX (TopAI), for topoisomerase I from Escherichia coli.
Knockout of Drosophila RNase ZL impairs mitochondrial transcript processing, respiration and cell cycle progression.
A predictive modeling approach for cell line-specific long-range regulatory interactions.
Legume information system (LegumeInfo.org): a key component of a set of federated data resources for the legume family.
DESM: portal for microbial knowledge exploration systems.
The Transporter Classification Database (TCDB): recent advances.
Cross talk of tyrosine kinases with the DNA damage signaling pathways.
Thermodynamic fingerprints of ligand binding to human telomeric G-quadruplexes.
Identification of bacterial sRNA regulatory targets using ribosome profiling.
EMERGE: a flexible modelling framework to predict genomic regulatory elements from genomic signatures.
HSP70 binding protein 1 (HspBP1) suppresses HIV-1 replication by inhibiting NF-κB mediated activation of viral gene expression.
Requirement for human Mps1/TTK in oxidative DNA damage repair and cell survival through MDM2 phosphorylation.
A dynamic intron retention program enriched in RNA processing genes regulates gene expression during terminal erythropoiesis.
Domain swapping between homologous bacterial small RNAs dissects processing and Hfq binding determinants and uncovers an aptamer for conditional RNase E cleavage.
JASPAR 2016: a major expansion and update of the open-access database of transcription factor binding profiles.
DGIdb 2.0: mining clinically relevant drug–gene interactions.
Tools and data services registry: a community effort to document bioinformatics resources.
Re-evaluating the kinetics of ATP hydrolysis during initiation of DNA sliding by Type III restriction enzymes.
Thermodynamic properties of water molecules in the presence of cosolute depend on DNA structure: a study using grid inhomogeneous solvation theory.
Collaborator of alternative reading frame protein (CARF) regulates early processing of pre-ribosomal RNA by retaining XRN2 (5′-3′ exoribonuclease) in the nucleoplasm.
Automated design of hammerhead ribozymes and validation by targeting the PABPN1 gene transcript.
Highly efficient homology-driven genome editing in human T cells by combining zinc-finger nuclease mRNA and AAV6 donor delivery.
The role of topoisomerase I in suppressing genome instability associated with a highly transcribed guanine-rich sequence is not restricted to preventing RNA:DNA hybrid accumulation.
sORFs.org: a repository of small ORFs identified by ribosome profiling.
The MetaCyc database of metabolic pathways and enzymes and the BioCyc collection of pathway/genome databases.
CEGA—a catalog of conserved elements from genomic alignments.
ENCODE data at the ENCODE portal.
RegulonDB version 9.0: high-level integration of gene regulation, coexpression, motif clustering and beyond.
MouseNet v2: a database of gene networks for studying the laboratory mouse and eight other model vertebrates.
2016 update of the PRIDE database and its related tools.
Norine, the knowledgebase dedicated to non-ribosomal peptides, is now open to crowdsourcing.
PGSB PlantsDB: updates to the database framework for comparative plant genome research.
Twenty years of the MEROPS database of proteolytic enzymes, their substrates and inhibitors.
MetaNetX/MNXref – reconciliation of metabolites and biochemical reactions to bring together genome-scale metabolic networks.
SATPdb: a database of structurally annotated therapeutic peptides.
Allosteric ring assembly and chemo-mechanical melting by the interaction between 5′-phosphate and λ exonuclease.
Computational learning on specificity-determining residue-nucleotide interactions.
JuncDB: an exon–exon junction database.
Information Commons for Rice (IC4R).
Deciphering the mechanisms of developmental disorders: phenotype analysis of embryos from mutant mouse lines.
ccmGDB: a database for cancer cell metabolism genes.
DNA targeting by the type I-G and type I-A CRISPR–Cas systems of Pyrococcus furiosus.
Zebrafish lacking functional DNA polymerase gamma survive to juvenile stage, despite rapid and sustained mitochondrial DNA depletion, altered energetics and growth.
The current state of eukaryotic DNA base damage and repair.
Algorithmic co-optimization of genetic constructs and growth conditions: application to 6-ACA, a potential nylon-6 precursor.
NCG 5.0: updates of a manually curated repository of cancer genes and associated properties from cancer mutational screenings.
Integrated interactions database: tissue-specific view of the human and model organism interactomes.
SynLethDB: synthetic lethality database toward discovery of selective and sensitive anticancer drug targets.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 19 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Intragenic G-quadruplex structure formed in the human CD133 and its biological and translational relevance.
Nucleotide binding database NBDB – a collection of sequence motifs with specific protein-ligand interactions.
BloodSpot: a database of gene expression profiles and transcriptional programs for healthy and malignant haematopoiesis.
Mapping DNA cleavage by the Type ISP restriction-modification enzymes following long-range communication between DNA sites in different orientations.
DNA deletion as a mechanism for developmentally programmed centromere loss.
A gene network engineering platform for lactic acid bacteria.
Mechanism of activation of methyltransferases involved in translation by the Trm112 ‘hub’ protein.
Tim/Timeless, a member of the replication fork protection complex, operates with the Warsaw breakage syndrome DNA helicase DDX11 in the same fork recovery pathway.
Recombinational repair of radiation-induced double-strand breaks occurs in the absence of extensive resection.
sRNATarBase 3.0: an updated database for sRNA-target interactions in bacteria.
Digital development: a database of cell lineage differentiation in C. elegans with lineage phenotypes, cell-specific gene functions and a multiscale model.
rVarBase: an updated database for regulatory features of human variants.
dbMAE: the database of autosomal monoallelic expression.
BDB: biopanning data bank.
Assembly and dynamics of the U4/U6 di-snRNP by single-molecule FRET.
Discovery and characterization of Alu repeat sequences via precise local read assembly.
Transient overexpression of DNA adenine methylase enables efficient and mobile genome engineering with reduced off-target effects.
Autoregulation of topoisomerase I expression by supercoiling sensitive transcription.
CstF-64 and 3′-UTR cis-element determine Star-PAP specificity for target mRNA selection by excluding PAPα.
Colorectal cancer atlas: An integrative resource for genomic and proteomic annotations from colorectal cancer cell lines and tissues.
OpenTein: a database of digital whole-slide images of stem cell-derived teratomas.
KLIFS: a structural kinase-ligand interaction database.
Backtracking behavior in viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase provides the basis for a second initiation site.
Slx4 and Rtt107 control checkpoint signalling and DNA resection at double-strand breaks.
Stability of blocked replication forks in vivo.
Functional coordination and HuR-mediated regulation of mRNA stability during T cell activation.
5SRNAdb: an information resource for 5S ribosomal RNAs.
SigMol: repertoire of quorum sensing signaling molecules in prokaryotes.
Structural basis for suppression of hypernegative DNA supercoiling by E. coli topoisomerase I.
A non-canonical multisubunit RNA polymerase encoded by a giant bacteriophage.
Robust expression of vault RNAs induced by influenza A virus plays a critical role in suppression of PKR-mediated innate immunity.
DNA-binding proteins from marine bacteria expand the known sequence diversity of TALE-like repeats.
Mechanism of aromatic amine carcinogen bypass by the Y-family polymerase, Dpo4.
Synthesis and cell-free cloning of DNA libraries using programmable microfluidics.
ZFP57 recognizes multiple and closely spaced sequence motif variants to maintain repressive epigenetic marks in mouse embryonic stem cells.
CRISPR-CAS9 D10A nickase target-specific fluorescent labeling of double strand DNA for whole genome mapping and structural variation analysis.
C7orf30 is necessary for biogenesis of the large subunit of the mitochondrial ribosome.
Human telomerase reverse transcriptase binds to a pre-organized hTR in vivo exposing its template.
Secondary structure encodes a cooperative tertiary folding funnel in the Azoarcus ribozyme.
Epitope-tagged yeast strains reveal promoter driven changes to 3′-end formation and convergent antisense-transcription from common 3′ UTRs.
Lnc2Cancer: a manually curated database of experimentally supported lncRNAs associated with various human cancers.
Bovine Genome Database: new tools for gleaning function from the Bos taurus genome.
The SIDER database of drugs and side effects.
BindingDB in 2015: A public database for medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry and systems pharmacology.
DIDA: A curated and annotated digenic diseases database.
ECMDB 2.0: A richer resource for understanding the biochemistry of E. coli.
Expression Atlas update—an integrated database of gene and protein expression in humans, animals and plants.
WikiPathways: capturing the full diversity of pathway knowledge.
Direct evidence of mitochondrial G-quadruplex DNA by using fluorescent anti-cancer agents.
Directly lighting up RNA G-quadruplexes from test tubes to living human cells.
H3K23me2 is a new heterochromatic mark in Caenorhabditis elegans.
Inner nuclear envelope protein SUN1 plays a prominent role in mammalian mRNA export.
The ubiquitin ligase HERC3 attenuates NF-κB-dependent transcription independently of its enzymatic activity by delivering the RelA subunit for degradation.
Epigenetic program and transcription factor circuitry of dendritic cell development.
Selection of 2′-deoxy-2′-fluoroarabinonucleotide (FANA) aptamers that bind HIV-1 reverse transcriptase with picomolar affinity.
Universal digital high-resolution melt: a novel approach to broad-based profiling of heterogeneous biological samples.
KEGG as a reference resource for gene and protein annotation.
FLOR-ID: an interactive database of flowering-time gene networks in Arabidopsis thaliana.
PhytoPath: an integrative resource for plant pathogen genomics.
CauloBrowser: A systems biology resource for Caulobacter crescentus.
BiGG Models: A platform for integrating, standardizing and sharing genome-scale models.
PDBe: improved accessibility of macromolecular structure data from PDB and EMDB.
GlyTouCan 1.0 – The international glycan structure repository.
PlantPAN 2.0: an update of plant promoter analysis navigator for reconstructing transcriptional regulatory networks in plants.
The structure of Erb1-Ytm1 complex reveals the functional importance of a high-affinity binding between two β-propellers during the assembly of large ribosomal subunits in eukaryotes.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 21 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Full-length RNA structure prediction of the HIV-1 genome reveals a conserved core domain.
Harnessing Type I and Type III CRISPR-Cas systems for genome editing.
A deep learning framework for modeling structural features of RNA-binding protein targets.
CAMPR3: a database on sequences, structures and signatures of antimicrobial peptides.
SIGNOR: a database of causal relationships between biological entities.
FlyBase: establishing a Gene Group resource for Drosophila melanogaster.
Metabolomics Workbench: An international repository for metabolomics data and metadata, metabolite standards, protocols, tutorials and training, and analysis tools.
ChEBI in 2016: Improved services and an expanding collection of metabolites.
Trans-oligomerization of duplicated aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases maintains genetic code fidelity under stress.
Crystallographic characterization of the ribosomal binding site and molecular mechanism of action of Hygromycin A.
Perturbations of PIP3 signalling trigger a global remodelling of mRNA landscape and reveal a transcriptional feedback loop.
Whole transcriptome profiling reveals the RNA content of motor axons.
Genome-wide CpG island methylation and intergenic demethylation propensities vary among different tumor sites.
RORα switches transcriptional mode of ERRγ that results in transcriptional repression of CYP2E1 under ethanol-exposure.
DTIE, a novel core promoter element that directs start site selection in TATA-less genes.
The IUPHAR/BPS Guide to PHARMACOLOGY in 2016: towards curated quantitative interactions between 1300 protein targets and 6000 ligands.
RMBase: a resource for decoding the landscape of RNA modifications from high-throughput sequencing data.
SKI2 mediates degradation of RISC 5′-cleavage fragments and prevents secondary siRNA production from miRNA targets in Arabidopsis.
A gating mechanism for Pi release governs the mRNA unwinding by eIF4AI during translation initiation.
Explaining the striking difference in twist-stretch coupling between DNA and RNA: A comparative molecular dynamics analysis.
Guanabenz (Wytensin™) selectively enhances uptake and efficacy of hydrophobically modified siRNAs.
Robust, tunable genetic memory from protein sequestration combined with positive feedback.
Accurate transcriptome-wide prediction of microRNA targets and small interfering RNA off-targets with MIRZA-G.
The rates of the major steps in the molecular mechanism of RNase H1-dependent antisense oligonucleotide induced degradation of RNA.
The Bacteroides sp. 3_1_23 Pif1 protein is a multifunctional helicase.
The STAT3 HIES mutation is a gain-of-function mutation that activates genes via AGG-element carrying promoters.
Structure of a human translation termination complex.
Redesign of the monomer–monomer interface of Cre recombinase yields an obligate heterotetrameric complex.
Nucleolin stabilizes G-quadruplex structures folded by the LTR promoter and silences HIV-1 viral transcription.
Structure and specificity of the RNA-guided endonuclease Cas9 during DNA interrogation, target binding and cleavage.
Interference activity of a minimal Type I CRISPR–Cas system from Shewanella putrefaciens.
Sequence-specific recognition of DNA minor groove by an NIR-fluorescence switch-on probe and its potential applications.
Cooperation between SMYD3 and PC4 drives a distinct transcriptional program in cancer cells.
ATP dependent NS3 helicase interaction with RNA: insights from molecular simulations.
A legion of potential regulatory sRNAs exists beyond the typical microRNAs microcosm.
A predictive modeling approach for cell line-specific long-range regulatory interactions.
A ruthenium dimer complex with a flexible linker slowly threads between DNA bases in two distinct steps.
Cell type-selective disease-association of genes under high regulatory load.
G-quadruplexes and their regulatory roles in biology.
Structure of mitochondrial poly(A) RNA polymerase reveals the structural basis for dimerization, ATP selectivity and the SPAX4 disease phenotype.
In silico and in vitro evaluation of exonic and intronic off-target effects form a critical element of therapeutic ASO gapmer optimization.
Structural basis for the Smad5 MH1 domain to recognize different DNA sequences.
Role of a non-canonical surface of Rad6 in ubiquitin conjugating activity.
Crystal structure of the full-length bacterial selenocysteine-specific elongation factor SelB.
Noncanoncial signal recognition particle RNAs in a major eukaryotic phylum revealed by purification of SRP from the human pathogen Cryptococcus neoformans.
TRAP150 interacts with the RNA-binding domain of PSF and antagonizes splicing of numerous PSF-target genes in T cells.
TDP-43 affects splicing profiles and isoform production of genes involved in the apoptotic and mitotic cellular pathways.
NUFIP and the HSP90/R2TP chaperone bind the SMN complex and facilitate assembly of U4-specific proteins.
A conserved Polϵ binding module in Ctf18-RFC is required for S-phase checkpoint activation downstream of Mec1.
hSSB1 (NABP2/ OBFC2B) is required for the repair of 8-oxo-guanine by the hOGG1-mediated base excision repair pathway.
Extended molecular dynamics of a c-kit promoter quadruplex.
Loss of EZH2 results in precocious mammary gland development and activation of STAT5-dependent genes.
Telomeric repeat silencing in germ cells is essential for early development in Drosophila.
Structure-function relationships governing activity and stability of a DNA alkylation damage repair thermostable protein.
DNA sequence templates adjacent nucleosome and ORC sites at gene amplification origins in Drosophila.
The N-terminus of RPA large subunit and its spatial position are important for the 5′->3′ resection of DNA double-strand breaks.
The master regulator of IncA/C plasmids is recognized by the Salmonella Genomic island SGI1 as a signal for excision and conjugal transfer.
RlmCD-mediated U747 methylation promotes efficient G748 methylation by methyltransferase RlmAII in 23S rRNA in Streptococcus pneumoniae; interplay between two rRNA methylations responsible for telithromycin susceptibility.
RNASequel: accurate and repeat tolerant realignment of RNA-seq reads.
High-throughput prediction of RNA, DNA and protein binding regions mediated by intrinsic disorder.
Efficient production of superior dumbbell-shaped DNA minimal vectors for small hairpin RNA expression.
Varying levels of complexity in transcription factor binding motifs.
Cas9-chromatin binding information enables more accurate CRISPR off-target prediction.
Bacteriophage strain typing by rapid single molecule analysis.
Characterization of fusion genes and the significantly expressed fusion isoforms in breast cancer by hybrid sequencing.
A mass spectrometry-based method for comprehensive quantitative determination of post-transcriptional RNA modifications: the complete chemical structure of Schizosaccharomyces pombe ribosomal RNAs.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 18 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Control of the localization and function of a miRNA silencing component TNRC6A by Argonaute protein.
LymAnalyzer: a tool for comprehensive analysis of next generation sequencing data of T cell receptors and immunoglobulins.
An autoregulatory enhancer controls mammary-specific STAT5 functions.
Chromatin association of the SMC5/6 complex is dependent on binding of its NSE3 subunit to DNA.
Impaired TIP60-mediated H4K16 acetylation accounts for the aberrant chromatin accumulation of 53BP1 and RAP80 in Fanconi anemia pathway-deficient cells.
Mechanism of Wnt signaling induced down regulation of mrhl long non-coding RNA in mouse spermatogonial cells.
CircNet: a database of circular RNAs derived from transcriptome sequencing data.
MEPD: medaka expression pattern database, genes and more.
MitoCarta2.0: an updated inventory of mammalian mitochondrial proteins.
SplicePie: a novel analytical approach for the detection of alternative, non-sequential and recursive splicing.
Two distinct modes of metal ion binding in the nuclease active site of a viral DNA-packaging terminase: insight into the two-metal-ion catalytic mechanism.
Intrastrand triplex DNA repeats in bacteria: a source of genomic instability.
Enhancing antisense efficacy with multimers and multi-targeting oligonucleotides (MTOs) using cleavable linkers.
MiRNA-891a-5p mediates HIV-1 Tat and KSHV Orf-K1 synergistic induction of angiogenesis by activating NF-κB signaling.
Integrated genome-wide analysis of genomic changes and gene regulation in human adrenocortical tissue samples.
NPGPx modulates CPEB2-controlled HIF-1α RNA translation in response to oxidative stress.
Genomes to natural products PRediction Informatics for Secondary Metabolomes (PRISM).
NCLscan: accurate identification of non-co-linear transcripts (fusion, trans-splicing and circular RNA) with a good balance between sensitivity and precision.
Attomole quantification and global profile of RNA modifications: Epitranscriptome of human neural stem cells.
CRISPRz: a database of zebrafish validated sgRNAs.
dbSUPER: a database of super-enhancers in mouse and human genome.
Insights into molecular plasticity in protein complexes from Trm9-Trm112 tRNA modifying enzyme crystal structure.
A novel transcriptional regulator of L-arabinose utilization in human gut bacteria.
Influence of 5-N-carboxamide modifications on the thermodynamic stability of oligonucleotides.
Hairpins participating in folding of human telomeric sequence quadruplexes studied by standard and T-REMD simulations.
Acentric chromosome ends are prone to fusion with functional chromosome ends through a homology-directed rearrangement.
RPFdb: a database for genome wide information of translated mRNA generated from ribosome profiling.
SubtiWiki 2.0—an integrated database for the model organism Bacillus subtilis.
BacWGSTdb, a database for genotyping and source tracking bacterial pathogens.
SerRS-tRNASec complex structures reveal mechanism of the first step in selenocysteine biosynthesis.
A cytoplasmic pathway for gapmer antisense oligonucleotide-mediated gene silencing in mammalian cells.
Molecular basis for the substrate specificity and catalytic mechanism of thymine-7-hydroxylase in fungi.
Quadruplex formation by both G-rich and C-rich DNA strands of the C9orf72 (GGGGCC)8•(GGCCCC)8 repeat: effect of CpG methylation.
Assembly and analysis of eukaryotic Argonaute–RNA complexes in microRNA-target recognition.
Genome-wide profiling of nucleosome sensitivity and chromatin accessibility in Drosophila melanogaster.
Detection of uracil within DNA using a sensitive labeling method for in vitro and cellular applications.
iPPI-DB: an online database of modulators of protein–protein interactions.
MaizeGDB update: new tools, data and interface for the maize model organism database.
MitoMiner v3.1, an update on the mitochondrial proteomics database.
New insights into the enzymatic role of EF-G in ribosome recycling.
Dynamical features of the Plasmodium falciparum ribosome during translation.
Nuclear domain ‘knock-in’ screen for the evaluation and identification of small molecule enhancers of CRISPR-based genome editing.
An extended dsRBD is required for post-transcriptional modification in human tRNAs.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 17 2015.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
KSHV but not MHV-68 LANA induces a strong bend upon binding to terminal repeat viral DNA.
Femtosecond near-infrared laser microirradiation reveals a crucial role for PARP signaling on factor assemblies at DNA damage sites.
BacDive – The Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase in 2016.
Dynamic modulation of Dnmt2-dependent tRNA methylation by the micronutrient queuine.
Nucleotide sequence of miRNA precursor contributes to cleavage site selection by Dicer.
RNA binding to APOBEC3G induces the disassembly of functional deaminase complexes by displacing single-stranded DNA substrates.
The players may change but the game remains: network analyses of ruminal microbiomes suggest taxonomic differences mask functional similarity.
Ultra-fast local-haplotype variant calling using paired-end DNA-sequencing data reveals somatic mosaicism in tumor and normal blood samples.
Reduced cohesin destabilizes high-level gene amplification by disrupting pre-replication complex bindings in human cancers with chromosomal instability.
DNA double-strand breaks with 5′ adducts are efficiently channeled to the DNA2-mediated resection pathway.
DnaC traps DnaB as an open ring and remodels the domain that binds primase.
ATM and KAT5 safeguard replicating chromatin against formaldehyde damage.
ANISEED 2015: a digital framework for the comparative developmental biology of ascidians.
Mammalian splicing factor SF1 interacts with SURP domains of U2 snRNP-associated proteins.
Direct-Coupling Analysis of nucleotide coevolution facilitates RNA secondary and tertiary structure prediction.
GeoPCA: a new tool for multivariate analysis of dihedral angles based on principal component geodesics.
Methylation of histone H3 lysine 9 occurs during translation.
Molecular basis for DNA strand displacement by NHEJ repair polymerases.
Dual transcriptional-translational cascade permits cellular level tuneable expression control.
Nuclear pyruvate kinase M2 complex serves as a transcriptional coactivator of arylhydrocarbon receptor.
A SnoRNA-derived piRNA interacts with human interleukin-4 pre-mRNA and induces its decay in nuclear exosomes.
QmRLFS-finder: a model, web server and stand-alone tool for prediction and analysis of R-loop forming sequences.
miR-58 family and TGF-β pathways regulate each other in Caenorhabditis elegans.
A novel high-throughput activity assay for the Trypanosoma brucei editosome enzyme REL1 and other RNA ligases.
Imprinting control regions (ICRs) are marked by mono-allelic bivalent chromatin when transcriptionally inactive.
SUVH1, a Su(var)3–9 family member, promotes the expression of genes targeted by DNA methylation.
The activity of CouR, a MarR family transcriptional regulator, is modulated through a novel molecular mechanism.
LRH-1 drives colon cancer cell growth by repressing the expression of the CDKN1A gene in a p53-dependent manner.
Novel nucleosomal particles containing core histones and linker DNA but no histone H1.
Characterization of a novel DNA glycosylase from S. sahachiroi involved in the reduction and repair of azinomycin B induced DNA damage.
hPSCreg—the human pluripotent stem cell registry.
PlantDHS: a database for DNase I hypersensitive sites in plants.
PubChem Substance and Compound databases.
PARN deadenylase is involved in miRNA-dependent degradation of TP53 mRNA in mammalian cells.
Cytotoxic and mutagenic properties of O4-alkylthymidine lesions in Escherichia coli cells.
The PIN domain of EXO1 recognizes poly(ADP-ribose) in DNA damage response.
Intergenic Alu exonisation facilitates the evolution of tissue-specific transcript ends.
Xanthine and 8-oxoguanine in G-quadruplexes: formation of a G·G·X·O tetrad.
Joint modeling of RNase footprint sequencing profiles for genome-wide inference of RNA structure.
Systematic reconstruction of binding and stability landscapes of the fluorogenic aptamer spinach.
Searching target sites on DNA by proteins: Role of DNA dynamics under confinement.
Beyond the one-locus-one-miRNA paradigm: microRNA isoforms enable deeper insights into breast cancer heterogeneity.
Base damage, local sequence context and TP53 mutation hotspots: a molecular dynamics study of benzo[a]pyrene induced DNA distortion and mutability.
Editorial: Alfred Pingoud (1945–2015).
Architecture of the eIF2B regulatory subcomplex and its implications for the regulation of guanine nucleotide exchange on eIF2.
Biologically-supported structural model for a viral satellite RNA.
miRVaS: a tool to predict the impact of genetic variants on miRNAs.
Targeted single molecule mutation detection with massively parallel sequencing.
ENmix: a novel background correction method for Illumina HumanMethylation450 BeadChip.
Beegle: from literature mining to disease-gene discovery.
A versatile toolbox for posttranscriptional chemical labeling and imaging of RNA.
Polysome shift assay for direct measurement of miRNA inhibition by anti-miRNA drugs.
Nuclear positioning rather than contraction controls ordered rearrangements of immunoglobulin loci.
The p53-p21-DREAM-CDE/CHR pathway regulates G2/M cell cycle genes.
Guanine quadruplex structures localize to heterochromatin.
CITED2 silencing sensitizes cancer cells to cisplatin by inhibiting p53 trans-activation and chromatin relaxation on the ERCC1 DNA repair gene.
The sliding clamp tethers the endonuclease domain of MutL to DNA.
Conformational toggling controls target site choice for the heteromeric transposase element Tn7.
Integrating multi-scale data on homologous recombination into a new recognition mechanism based on simulations of the RecA-ssDNA/dsDNA structure.
Slicer-independent mechanism drives small-RNA strand separation during human RISC assembly.
Molecular basis of the attenuated phenotype of human APOBEC3B DNA mutator enzyme.
The novel influenza A virus protein PA-X and its naturally deleted variant show different enzymatic properties in comparison to the viral endonuclease PA.
A structural approach reveals how neighbouring C2H2 zinc fingers influence DNA binding specificity.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 16 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
The reverse transcription signature of N-1-methyladenosine in RNA-Seq is sequence dependent.
A computational method for studying the relation between alternative splicing and DNA methylation.
Sizing femtogram amounts of dsDNA by single-molecule counting.
Adapting capillary gel electrophoresis as a sensitive, high-throughput method to accelerate characterization of nucleic acid metabolic enzymes.
A high-throughput assay for the comprehensive profiling of DNA ligase fidelity.
Probing binding hot spots at protein–RNA recognition sites.
ASD v3.0: unraveling allosteric regulation with structural mechanisms and biological networks.
MCM ring hexamerization is a prerequisite for DNA-binding.
Lack of correlation between reaction speed and analytical sensitivity in isothermal amplification reveals the value of digital methods for optimization: validation using digital real-time RT-LAMP.
Characterization of a cAMP responsive transcription factor, Cmr (Rv1675c), in TB complex mycobacteria reveals overlap with the DosR (DevR) dormancy regulon.
An atlas of RNA base pairs involving modified nucleobases with optimal geometries and accurate energies.
Thymine DNA glycosylase exhibits negligible affinity for nucleobases that it removes from DNA.
Mammalian RAD51 paralogs protect nascent DNA at stalled forks and mediate replication restart.
Mitochondrial poly(A) polymerase is involved in tRNA repair.
Effects of non-CpG site methylation on DNA thermal stability: a fluorescence study.
Simultaneous characterization of cellular RNA structure and function with in-cell SHAPE-Seq.
Epigenetic factor EPC1 is a master regulator of DNA damage response by interacting with E2F1 to silence death and activate metastasis-related gene signatures.
Turning publicly available gene expression data into discoveries using gene set context analysis.
Human HLTF mediates postreplication repair by its HIRAN domain-dependent replication fork remodelling.
Single-stranded DNA oligomers stimulate error-prone alternative repair of DNA double-strand breaks through hijacking Ku protein.
Co-evolution of quaternary organization and novel RNA tertiary interactions revealed in the crystal structure of a bacterial protein–RNA toxin–antitoxin system.
Nano-mechanical measurements of protein-DNA interactions with a silicon nitride pulley.
Directional transition from initiation to elongation in bacterial translation.
Epigenetic instability of imprinted genes in human cancers.
A reconstituted system reveals how activating and inhibitory interactions control DDK dependent assembly of the eukaryotic replicative helicase.
EF-Tu dynamics during pre-translocation complex formation: EF-Tu·GDP exits the ribosome via two different pathways.
Hairpins under tension: RNA versus DNA.
NUCKS1 is a novel RAD51AP1 paralog important for homologous recombination and genome stability.
Structure of Naegleria Tet-like dioxygenase (NgTet1) in complexes with a reaction intermediate 5-hydroxymethylcytosine DNA.
Profiling of promoter occupancy by the SND1 transcriptional coactivator identifies downstream glycerolipid metabolic genes involved in TNFα response in human hepatoma cells.
The histone variant H2A.Z is an important regulator of enhancer activity.
A novel mode of nuclease action is revealed by the bacterial Mre11/Rad50 complex.
Sumoylation of Sir2 differentially regulates transcriptional silencing in yeast.
Nucleosome compaction facilitates HP1γ binding to methylated H3K9.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 15 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
A unique uracil-DNA binding protein of the uracil DNA glycosylase superfamily.
Cis-acting signals modulate the efficiency of programmed DNA elimination in Paramecium tetraurelia.
The energetic basis of the DNA double helix: a combined microcalorimetric approach.
Discovery of an essential nucleotidylating activity associated with a newly delineated conserved domain in the RNA polymerase-containing protein of all nidoviruses.
Competitive interaction of monovalent cations with DNA from 3D-RISM.
LARVA: an integrative framework for large-scale analysis of recurrent variants in noncoding annotations.
The mRNA related ceRNA–ceRNA landscape and significance across 20 major cancer types.
DNA-binding protein prediction using plant specific support vector machines: validation and application of a new genome annotation tool.
DREAMing: a simple and ultrasensitive method for assessing intratumor epigenetic heterogeneity directly from liquid biopsies.
Histone variant H3.3 provides the heterochromatic H3 lysine 9 tri-methylation mark at telomeres.
DksA involvement in transcription fidelity buffers stochastic epigenetic change.
Cooperation meets competition in microRNA-mediated DMPK transcript regulation.
RAG-3D: a search tool for RNA 3D substructures.
Involvement of SRSF11 in cell cycle-specific recruitment of telomerase to telomeres at nuclear speckles.
Carbohydrate structure database merged from bacterial, archaeal, plant and fungal parts.
Local sequence assembly reveals a high-resolution profile of somatic structural variations in 97 cancer genomes.
Optimizing RNA structures by sequence extensions using RNAcop.
The role of wobble uridine modifications in +1 translational frameshifting in eukaryotes.
Functional interaction of Rpb1 and Spt5 C-terminal domains in co-transcriptional histone modification.
The WRN exonuclease domain protects nascent strands from pathological MRE11/EXO1-dependent degradation.
Mapping the interactions of the single-stranded DNA binding protein of bacteriophage T4 (gp32) with DNA lattices at single nucleotide resolution: polynucleotide binding and cooperativity.
Mapping the interactions of the single-stranded DNA binding protein of bacteriophage T4 (gp32) with DNA lattices at single nucleotide resolution: gp32 monomer binding.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 14 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Extensive RPA2 hyperphosphorylation promotes apoptosis in response to DNA replication stress in CHK1 inhibited cells.
Oct-2 forms a complex with Oct-1 on the iNOS promoter and represses transcription by interfering with recruitment of RNA PolII by Oct-1.
Large-scale profiling of microRNAs for The Cancer Genome Atlas.
A polymerase engineered for bisulfite sequencing.
Topoisomerase 1-dependent deletions initiated by incision at ribonucleotides are biased to the non-transcribed strand of a highly activated reporter.
mRNA and DNA selection via protein multimerization: YB-1 as a case study.
Structure and primase-mediated activation of a bacterial dodecameric replicative helicase.
Structural basis for selective targeting of leishmanial ribosomes: aminoglycoside derivatives as promising therapeutics.
The impact of the phosphomimetic eIF2αS/D on global translation, reinitiation and the integrated stress response is attenuated in N2a cells.
DNA binding fluorescent proteins for the direct visualization of large DNA molecules.
Identification of large-scale genomic variation in cancer genomes using in silico reference models.
Quantification of DNA cleavage specificity in Hi-C experiments.
ROTS: reproducible RNA-seq biomarker detector—prognostic markers for clear cell renal cell cancer.
Paradoxical suppression of small RNA activity at high Hfq concentrations due to random-order binding.
Widespread alternative and aberrant splicing revealed by lariat sequencing.
Integrated analysis of numerous heterogeneous gene expression profiles for detecting robust disease-specific biomarkers and proposing drug targets.
Molecular basis of ribosome recognition and mRNA hydrolysis by the E. coli YafQ toxin.
Solution structure of a DNA quadruplex containing ALS and FTD related GGGGCC repeat stabilized by 8-bromodeoxyguanosine substitution.
GC skew is a conserved property of unmethylated CpG island promoters across vertebrates.
DynaMIT: the dynamic motif integration toolkit.
CRISPR-STAT: an easy and reliable PCR-based method to evaluate target-specific sgRNA activity.
Linkage of catalysis and 5′ end recognition in ribonuclease RNase J.
Regulation of DNA replication at the end of the mitochondrial D-loop involves the helicase TWINKLE and a conserved sequence element.
The FMRP/GRK4 mRNA interaction uncovers a new mode of binding of the Fragile X mental retardation protein in cerebellum.
FUS/TLS contributes to replication-dependent histone gene expression by interaction with U7 snRNPs and histone-specific transcription factors.
Rationally evolving tRNAPyl for efficient incorporation of noncanonical amino acids.
Simultaneous measurement of passage through the restriction point and MCM loading in single cells.
Free energy landscape and transition pathways from Watson–Crick to Hoogsteen base pairing in free duplex DNA.
Site specific replacements of a single loop nucleoside with a dibenzyl linker may switch the activity of TBA from anticoagulant to antiproliferative.
High speed BLASTN: an accelerated MegaBLAST search tool.
Crosslinking reactions of 4-amino-6-oxo-2-vinylpyrimidine with guanine derivatives and structural analysis of the adducts.
Agonistic aptamer to the insulin receptor leads to biased signaling and functional selectivity through allosteric modulation.
Genome-wide analysis of YB-1-RNA interactions reveals a novel role of YB-1 in miRNA processing in glioblastoma multiforme.
ATM-dependent phosphorylation of MRE11 controls extent of resection during homology directed repair by signalling through Exonuclease 1.
Structural basis for DNA strand separation by a hexameric replicative helicase.
Mechanism of CRISPR-RNA guided recognition of DNA targets in Escherichia coli.
The conserved 3′X terminal domain of hepatitis C virus genomic RNA forms a two-stem structure that promotes viral RNA dimerization.
Elongator-dependent modification of cytoplasmic tRNALysUUU is required for mitochondrial function under stress conditions.
RiboAbacus: a model trained on polyribosome images predicts ribosome density and translational efficiency from mammalian transcriptomes.
A novel method for the multiplexed target enrichment of MinION next generation sequencing libraries using PCR-generated baits.
Oligonucleotide gap-fill ligation for mutation detection and sequencing in situ.
Reassignment of a rare sense codon to a non-canonical amino acid in Escherichia coli.
Functional significance of protein assemblies predicted by the crystal structure of the restriction endonuclease BsaWI.
Thermodynamic insights into 2-thiouridine-enhanced RNA hybridization.
Revisiting the structure/function relationships of H/ACA(-like) RNAs: a unified model for Euryarchaea and Crenarchaea.
Origin-of-transfer sequences facilitate mobilisation of non-conjugative antimicrobial-resistance plasmids in Staphylococcus aureus.
The interaction of ω2 with the RNA polymerase β’ subunit functions as an activation to repression switch.
A bacterial regulatory RNA attenuates virulence, spread and human host cell phagocytosis.
Mediator independently orchestrates multiple steps of preinitiation complex assembly in vivo.
The RNA-binding protein HOS5 and serine/arginine-rich proteins RS40 and RS41 participate in miRNA biogenesis in Arabidopsis.
Towards a comprehensive picture of alloacceptor tRNA remolding in metazoan mitochondrial genomes.
Global identification of the genetic networks and cis-regulatory elements of the cold response in zebrafish.
On the availability of microRNA-induced silencing complexes, saturation of microRNA-binding sites and stoichiometry.
Dissecting the target specificity of RNase H recruiting oligonucleotides using massively parallel reporter analysis of short RNA motifs.
DNA polymerases κ and ζ cooperatively perform mutagenic translesion synthesis of the C8–2′-deoxyguanosine adduct of the dietary mutagen IQ in human cells.
Identification of siRNA delivery enhancers by a chemical library screen.
Nucleotide binding interactions modulate dNTP selectivity and facilitate 8-oxo-dGTP incorporation by DNA polymerase lambda.
Post-transcriptional gene silencing triggered by sense transgenes involves uncapped antisense RNA and differs from silencing intentionally triggered by antisense transgenes.
Transcription yield of fully 2′-modified RNA can be increased by the addition of thermostabilizing mutations to T7 RNA polymerase mutants.
Blocking of targeted microRNAs from next-generation sequencing libraries.
Altered expression and editing of miRNA-100 regulates iTreg differentiation.
Processing by MRE11 is involved in the sensitivity of subtelomeric regions to DNA double-strand breaks.
ChIP-seq reveals the global regulator AlgR mediating cyclic di-GMP synthesis in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
The La-related protein 1-specific domain repurposes HEAT-like repeats to directly bind a 5′TOP sequence.
SETDB1, HP1 and SUV39 promote repositioning of 53BP1 to extend resection during homologous recombination in G2 cells.
Accurate placement of substrate RNA by Gar1 in H/ACA RNA-guided pseudouridylation.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 13 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Deciphering the principles that govern mutually exclusive expression of Plasmodium falciparum clag3 genes.
Splicing inhibition decreases phosphorylation level of Ser2 in Pol II CTD.
The yeast genome undergoes significant topological reorganization in quiescence.
In vivo detection and replication studies of α-anomeric lesions of 2′-deoxyribonucleosides.
Conformation-sensitive nucleoside analogues as topology-specific fluorescence turn-on probes for DNA and RNA G-quadruplexes.
BayesPI-BAR: a new biophysical model for characterization of regulatory sequence variations.
Allelome.PRO, a pipeline to define allele-specific genomic features from high-throughput sequencing data.
G-quadruplex formation in double strand DNA probed by NMM and CV fluorescence.
A design principle for a single-stranded RNA genome that replicates with less double-strand formation.
SUMOylation at K707 of DGCR8 controls direct function of primary microRNA.
How data analysis affects power, reproducibility and biological insight of RNA-seq studies in complex datasets.
Complex long-distance effects of mutations that confer linezolid resistance in the large ribosomal subunit.
Single cell measurement of telomerase expression and splicing using microfluidic emulsion cultures.
tRNA recognition by a bacterial tRNA Xm32 modification enzyme from the SPOUT methyltransferase superfamily.
ΔNp63 intronic miR-944 is implicated in the ΔNp63-mediated induction of epidermal differentiation.
FANCD2 and REV1 cooperate in the protection of nascent DNA strands in response to replication stress.
Sources of PCR-induced distortions in high-throughput sequencing data sets.
Novel insights into RNP granules by employing the trypanosome's microtubule skeleton as a molecular sieve.
ROCK inhibition enhances microRNA function by promoting deadenylation of targeted mRNAs via increasing PAIP2 expression.
Elastic network models for RNA: a comparative assessment with molecular dynamics and SHAPE experiments.
Data quality aware analysis of differential expression in RNA-seq with NOISeq R/Bioc package.
Dynamic profiling of double-stranded RNA binding proteins.
ZNF555 protein binds to transcriptional activator site of 4qA allele and ANT1: potential implication in Facioscapulohumeral dystrophy.
STAR3D: a stack-based RNA 3D structural alignment tool.
Base-resolution detection of N4-methylcytosine in genomic DNA using 4mC-Tet-assisted-bisulfite- sequencing.
DSSR: an integrated software tool for dissecting the spatial structure of RNA.
Detection of differentially methylated regions from whole-genome bisulfite sequencing data without replicates.
The unusual and dynamic character of PX-DNA.
RNA aptamer inhibitors of a restriction endonuclease.
Dual-colour imaging of RNAs using quencher- and fluorophore-binding aptamers.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae Dna2 can function as a sole nuclease in the processing of Okazaki fragments in DNA replication.
Xylonucleic acid: synthesis, structure, and orthogonal pairing properties.
Adenine versus guanine DNA adducts of aristolochic acids: role of the carcinogen–purine linkage in the differential global genomic repair propensity.
The interplay between DNA methylation and sequence divergence in recent human evolution.
Chromosomal position shift of a regulatory gene alters the bacterial phenotype.
Different types of interaction between PCNA and PIP boxes contribute to distinct cellular functions of Y-family DNA polymerases.
Acetylation-dependent function of human single-stranded DNA binding protein 1.
BatAlign: an incremental method for accurate alignment of sequencing reads.
RefSeq curation and annotation of antizyme and antizyme inhibitor genes in vertebrates.
Improved prediction of RNA secondary structure by integrating the free energy model with restraints derived from experimental probing data.
Importin-β facilitates nuclear import of human GW proteins and balances cytoplasmic gene silencing protein levels.
The microRNA-183 cluster: the family that plays together stays together.
Role of the central cations in the mechanical unfolding of DNA and RNA G-quadruplexes.
Utilizing mapping targets of sequences underrepresented in the reference assembly to reduce false positive alignments.
A framework for improving microRNA prediction in non-human genomes.
Characterisation of aptamer–target interactions by branched selection and high-throughput sequencing of SELEX pools.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 12 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Count ratio model reveals bias affecting NGS fold changes.
Shaping the landscape of the Escherichia coli chromosome: replication-transcription encounters in cells with an ectopic replication origin.
Ty1 retrovirus-like element Gag contains overlapping restriction factor and nucleic acid chaperone functions.
EXO1 is critical for embryogenesis and the DNA damage response in mice with a hypomorphic Nbs1 allele.
A new method to prevent carry-over contaminations in two-step PCR NGS library preparations.
Upregulating endogenous genes by an RNA-programmable artificial transactivator.
Different motif requirements for the localization zipcode element of β-actin mRNA binding by HuD and ZBP1.
SUV3 helicase is required for correct processing of mitochondrial transcripts.
Synthetic biosensors for precise gene control and real-time monitoring of metabolites.
The transcription factors SOX9 and SOX5/SOX6 cooperate genome-wide through super-enhancers to drive chondrogenesis.
Structural and functional studies of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis VapBC30 toxin-antitoxin system: implications for the design of novel antimicrobial peptides.
Structural heterogeneity and functional diversity of topologically associating domains in mammalian genomes.
Generation of supercoils in nicked and gapped DNA drives DNA unknotting and postreplicative decatenation.
Structural basis of the mercury(II)-mediated conformational switching of the dual-function transcriptional regulator MerR.
UV induced ubiquitination of the yeast Rad4–Rad23 complex promotes survival by regulating cellular dNTP pools.
Nucleic acid-binding specificity of human FUS protein.
Recovery of the poisoned topoisomerase II for DNA religation: coordinated motion of the cleavage core revealed with the microsecond atomistic simulation.
Microbial species delineation using whole genome sequences.
Transcriptomic profiling of gene expression and RNA processing during Leishmania major differentiation.
Bacteriophage GIL01 gp7 interacts with host LexA repressor to enhance DNA binding and inhibit RecA-mediated auto-cleavage.
Mediator tail subunits can form amyloid-like aggregates in vivo and affect stress response in yeast.
A fungicide-responsive kinase as a tool for synthetic cell fate regulation.
Phosphorylation regulates the Star-PAP-PIPKIα interaction and directs specificity toward mRNA targets.
Tight regulation of plant immune responses by combining promoter and suicide exon elements.
Structural basis for substrate recognition and processive cleavage mechanisms of the trimeric exonuclease PhoExo I.
Identification of in vivo DNA-binding mechanisms of Pax6 and reconstruction of Pax6-dependent gene regulatory networks during forebrain and lens development.
A nested parallel experiment demonstrates differences in intensity-dependence between RNA-seq and microarrays.
Biological chromodynamics: a general method for measuring protein occupancy across the genome by calibrating ChIP-seq.
MicroRNA-29b/Tet1 regulatory axis epigenetically modulates mesendoderm differentiation in mouse embryonic stem cells.
The missing indels: an estimate of indel variation in a human genome and analysis of factors that impede detection.
Destabilization of microRNAs in human cells by 3′ deadenylation mediated by PARN and CUGBP1.
A network of SMG-8, SMG-9 and SMG-1 C-terminal insertion domain regulates UPF1 substrate recruitment and phosphorylation.
Two separable functions of Ctp1 in the early steps of meiotic DNA double-strand break repair.
Linking two DNA duplexes with a rigid linker for DNA nanotechnology.
Enriching CRISPR-Cas9 targeted cells by co-targeting the HPRT gene.
DDB2 modulates TGF-β signal transduction in human ovarian cancer cells by downregulating NEDD4L.
Sense and antisense transcription are associated with distinct chromatin architectures across genes.
Identifying novel sequence variants of RNA 3D motifs.
Human DNA ligase III bridges two DNA ends to promote specific intermolecular DNA end joining.
Characterization of ERM transactivation domain binding to the ACID/PTOV domain of the Mediator subunit MED25.
In vitro evolution of distinct self-cleaving ribozymes in diverse environments.
CTNNBL1 facilitates the association of CWC15 with CDC5L and is required to maintain the abundance of the Prp19 spliceosomal complex.
Site-specific labeling of RNA by combining genetic alphabet expansion transcription and copper-free click chemistry.
The XRCC1 phosphate-binding pocket binds poly (ADP-ribose) and is required for XRCC1 function.
Transcriptional and post-transcriptional control of adipocyte differentiation by Jumonji domain-containing protein 6.
Integrative genomic analysis in K562 chronic myelogenous leukemia cells reveals that proximal NCOR1 binding positively regulates genes that govern erythroid differentiation and Imatinib sensitivity.
The NEIL glycosylases remove oxidized guanine lesions from telomeric and promoter quadruplex DNA structures.
Structures of the T. brucei kRNA editing factor MRB1590 reveal unique RNA-binding pore motif contained within an ABC-ATPase fold.
Redefining the transcriptional regulatory dynamics of classically and alternatively activated macrophages by deepCAGE transcriptomics.
Chemical intervention of the NM23-H2 transcriptional programme on c-MYC via a novel small molecule.
The structure of Rpf2–Rrs1 explains its role in ribosome biogenesis.
Active promoters give rise to false positive ‘Phantom Peaks’ in ChIP-seq experiments.
A predictive biophysical model of translational coupling to coordinate and control protein expression in bacterial operons.
The ancestor of modern Holozoa acquired the CCA-adding enzyme from Alphaproteobacteria by horizontal gene transfer.
Complementing tissue characterization by integrating transcriptome profiling from the Human Protein Atlas and from the FANTOM5 consortium.
An atlas of RNA base pairs involving modified nucleobases with optimal geometries and accurate energies.
BreakSeek: a breakpoint-based algorithm for full spectral range INDEL detection.
Editorial: Nucleic Acids Research annual Web Server Issue in 2015.
MRPrimer: a MapReduce-based method for the thorough design of valid and ranked primers for PCR.
Dynamic contact network between ribosomal subunits enables rapid large-scale rotation during spontaneous translocation.
Evidence that avian reovirus σNS is an RNA chaperone: implications for genome segment assortment.
Primase-polymerases are a functionally diverse superfamily of replication and repair enzymes.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 11 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Multiplexed highly-accurate DNA sequencing of closely-related HIV-1 variants using continuous long reads from single molecule, real-time sequencing.
Ca2+ enrichment in culture medium potentiates effect of oligonucleotides.
ECHO-liveFISH: in vivo RNA labeling reveals dynamic regulation of nuclear RNA foci in living tissues.
BioJazz: in silico evolution of cellular networks with unbounded complexity using rule-based modeling.
Ribosomal protein L10(L12)4 autoregulates expression of the Bacillus subtilis rplJL operon by a transcription attenuation mechanism.
Transcription blockage by stable H-DNA analogs in vitro.
FKBP51 employs both scaffold and isomerase functions to promote NF-κB activation in melanoma.
The de-ubiquitylating enzymes USP26 and USP37 regulate homologous recombination by counteracting RAP80.
SAMHD1 is a single-stranded nucleic acid binding protein with no active site-associated nuclease activity.
Induced folding in RNA recognition by Arabidopsis thaliana DCL1.
Structural and biochemical studies of the distinct activity profiles of Rai1 enzymes.
Post-translational environmental switch of RadA activity by extein–intein interactions in protein splicing.
microRNAs and the evolution of complex multicellularity: identification of a large, diverse complement of microRNAs in the brown alga Ectocarpus.
Simultaneous live imaging of the transcription and nuclear position of specific genes.
Molecular insights into HSD10 disease: impact of SDR5C1 mutations on the human mitochondrial RNase P complex.
Ionic switch controls the DNA state in phage λ.
The eIF3 complex of Leishmania—subunit composition and mode of recruitment to different cap-binding complexes.
By the company they keep: interaction networks define the binding ability of transcription factors.
Efficient conditional knockout targeting vector construction using co-selection BAC recombineering (CoSBR).
MiRBooking simulates the stoichiometric mode of action of microRNAs.
Smarcal1 promotes double-strand-break repair by nonhomologous end-joining.
Functional VEGFA knockdown with artificial 3′-tailed mirtrons defined by 5′ splice site and branch point.
The poor homology stringency in the heteroduplex allows strand exchange to incorporate desirable mismatches without sacrificing recognition in vivo.
Transcriptome dynamics of the microRNA inhibition response.
Decoupling of divergent gene regulation by sequence-specific DNA binding factors.
Genome wide interactions of wild-type and activator bypass forms of σ54.
Development of an intein-mediated split–Cas9 system for gene therapy.
Chromatin and extracellular vesicle associated sperm RNAs.
Cross talk between the response regulators PhoB and TctD allows for the integration of diverse environmental signals in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
Targeted DNA damage at individual telomeres disrupts their integrity and triggers cell death.
FDF-PAGE: a powerful technique revealing previously undetected small RNAs sequestered by complementary transcripts.
p27Kip1 and p21Cip1 collaborate in the regulation of transcription by recruiting cyclin–Cdk complexes on the promoters of target genes.
Cooperativity-based modeling of heterotypic DNA nanostructure assembly.
Widespread occurrence of N6-methyladenosine in bacterial mRNA.
SERBP1 affects homologous recombination-mediated DNA repair by regulation of CtIP translation during S phase.
Distinct sets of PIWI proteins produce arbovirus and transposon-derived piRNAs in Aedes aegypti mosquito cells.
Resistance of mRNAs with AUG-proximal nonsense mutations to nonsense-mediated decay reflects variables of mRNA structure and translational activity.
Natural variability of minimotifs in 1092 people indicates that minimotifs are targets of evolution.
RNAssess—a web server for quality assessment of RNA 3D structures.
DNA hairpins destabilize duplexes primarily by promoting melting rather than by inhibiting hybridization.
Controlling tetramer formation, subunit rotation and DNA ligation during Hin-catalyzed DNA inversion.
The RAD52-like protein ODB1 is required for the efficient excision of two mitochondrial introns spliced via first-step hydrolysis.
R3D-2-MSA: the RNA 3D structure-to-multiple sequence alignment server.
A cis-encoded sRNA, Hfq and mRNA secondary structure act independently to suppress IS200 transposition.
Surface plasmon resonance imaging reveals multiple binding modes of Agrobacterium transformation mediator VirE2 to ssDNA.
CATNAP: a tool to compile, analyze and tally neutralizing antibody panels.
Sequence-independent characterization of viruses based on the pattern of viral small RNAs produced by the host.
Context-specific role of SOX9 in NF-Y mediated gene regulation in colorectal cancer cells.
A fine balance: epigenetic control of cellular quiescence by the tumor suppressor PRDM2/RIZ at a bivalent domain in the cyclin a gene.
Partitioning between recoding and termination at a stop codon–selenocysteine insertion sequence.
SNiPlay3: a web-based application for exploration and large scale analyses of genomic variations.
Bacteriophage Xp10 anti-termination factor p7 induces forward translocation by host RNA polymerase.
RNautophagy/DNautophagy possesses selectivity for RNA/DNA substrates.
TBP-like protein (TLP) interferes with Taspase1-mediated processing of TFIIA and represses TATA box gene expression.
PRC2 regulates RNA polymerase III transcribed non-translated RNA gene transcription through EZH2 and SUZ12 interaction with TFIIIC complex.
Mechanism of heat stress-induced cellular senescence elucidates the exclusive vulnerability of early S-phase cells to mild genotoxic stress.
I-COMS: Interprotein-COrrelated Mutations Server.
Outwitting EF-Tu and the ribosome: translation with d-amino acids.
MINT: software to identify motifs and short-range interactions in trajectories of nucleic acids.
Caffeine inhibits gene conversion by displacing Rad51 from ssDNA.
Caffeine impairs resection during DNA break repair by reducing the levels of nucleases Sae2 and Dna2.
Multivalent ion-mediated nucleic acid helix-helix interactions: RNA versus DNA.
sRNAtoolbox: an integrated collection of small RNA research tools.
INGA: protein function prediction combining interaction networks, domain assignments and sequence similarity.
RNAiFold 2.0: a web server and software to design custom and Rfam-based RNA molecules.
A novel hybrid single molecule approach reveals spontaneous DNA motion in the nucleosome.
Nucleotidyl transferase assisted DNA labeling with different click chemistries.
Quantitative characterization of protein–protein complexes involved in base excision DNA repair.
Real-time single-molecule studies of the motions of DNA polymerase fingers illuminate DNA synthesis mechanisms.
The Cas6e ribonuclease is not required for interference and adaptation by the E. coli type I-E CRISPR-Cas system.
Synthesis and triplex-forming properties of oligonucleotides capable of recognizing corresponding DNA duplexes containing four base pairs.
DeAnnCNV: a tool for online detection and annotation of copy number variations from whole-exome sequencing data.
PatternQuery: web application for fast detection of biomacromolecular structural patterns in the entire Protein Data Bank.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 10 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
A modular open platform for systematic functional studies under physiological conditions.
Disturbance-free rapid solution exchange for magnetic tweezers single-molecule studies.
Tailor: a computational framework for detecting non-templated tailing of small silencing RNAs.
Gene target specificity of the Super Elongation Complex (SEC) family: how HIV-1 Tat employs selected SEC members to activate viral transcription.
Identifying high-affinity aptamer ligands with defined cross-reactivity using high-throughput guided systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment.
Two mechanisms coordinate replication termination by the Escherichia coli Tus–Ter complex.
Regulation of the Type I-F CRISPR-Cas system by CRP-cAMP and GalM controls spacer acquisition and interference.
Dynamics of MBD2 deposition across methylated DNA regions during malignant transformation of human mammary epithelial cells.
Destruction of a distal hypoxia response element abolishes trans-activation of the PAG1 gene mediated by HIF-independent chromatin looping.
DNA3′pp5′G de-capping activity of aprataxin: effect of cap nucleoside analogs and structural basis for guanosine recognition.
Spring loading a pre-cleavage intermediate for hairpin telomere formation.
StemChecker: a web-based tool to discover and explore stemness signatures in gene sets.
LYRA, a webserver for lymphocyte receptor structural modeling.
Global analysis of RNA cleavage by 5′-hydroxyl RNA sequencing.
Haploinsufficiency predictions without study bias.
Structure-guided sequence specificity engineering of the modification-dependent restriction endonuclease LpnPI.
Bacillus subtilis RecO and SsbA are crucial for RecA-mediated recombinational DNA repair.
Global transcription network incorporating distal regulator binding reveals selective cooperation of cancer drivers and risk genes.
DNA-PKcs phosphorylates hnRNP-A1 to facilitate the RPA-to-POT1 switch and telomere capping after replication.
Modulation of LSD1 phosphorylation by CK2/WIP1 regulates RNF168-dependent 53BP1 recruitment in response to DNA damage.
Novel mechanism of gene regulation: the protein Rv1222 of Mycobacterium tuberculosis inhibits transcription by anchoring the RNA polymerase onto DNA.
Stereospecific suppression of active site mutants by methylphosphonate substituted substrates reveals the stereochemical course of site-specific DNA recombination.
TRF1 and TRF2 binding to telomeres is modulated by nucleosomal organization.
ATP-dependent motor activity of the transcription termination factor Rho from Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Characterization of human herpesvirus 6A/B U94 as ATPase, helicase, exonuclease and DNA-binding proteins.
Primerize: automated primer assembly for transcribing non-coding RNA domains.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 9 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Removing unwanted variation in a differential methylation analysis of Illumina HumanMethylation450 array data.
Frequency-based haplotype reconstruction from deep sequencing data of bacterial populations.
A low-latency, big database system and browser for storage, querying and visualization of 3D genomic data.
ATP-dependent G-quadruplex unfolding by Bloom helicase exhibits low processivity.
AP endonuclease 1 prevents trinucleotide repeat expansion via a novel mechanism during base excision repair.
SLX4 contributes to telomere preservation and regulated processing of telomeric joint molecule intermediates.
Nicked-site substrates for a serine recombinase reveal enzyme–DNA communications and an essential tethering role of covalent enzyme–DNA linkages.
Rational evolution of Cd2+-specific DNAzymes with phosphorothioate modified cleavage junction and Cd2+ sensing.
Small RNA-mediated DNA (cytosine-5) methyltransferase 1 inhibition leads to aberrant DNA methylation.
Significant expansion of the REST/NRSF cistrome in human versus mouse embryonic stem cells: potential implications for neural development.
Cdt1-binding protein GRWD1 is a novel histone-binding protein that facilitates MCM loading through its influence on chromatin architecture.
Mutations in the CRE pocket of bacterial RNA polymerase affect multiple steps of transcription.
Splicing of a non-coding antisense transcript controls LEF1 gene expression.
Genome-wide promoter binding profiling of protein phosphatase-1 and its major nuclear targeting subunits.
An implementation of the Gillespie algorithm for RNA kinetics with logarithmic time update.
N protein from lambdoid phages transforms NusA into an antiterminator by modulating NusA-RNA polymerase flap domain interactions.
MS2PIP prediction server: compute and visualize MS2 peak intensity predictions for CID and HCD fragmentation.
MyProteinNet: build up-to-date protein interaction networks for organisms, tissues and user-defined contexts.
StarScan: a web server for scanning small RNA targets from degradome sequencing data.
APPRIS WebServer and WebServices.
Multidimensional gene search with Genehopper.
Eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF5 promotes the accuracy of start codon recognition by regulating Pi release and conformational transitions of the preinitiation complex.
De novo design of heat-repressible RNA thermosensors in E. coli.
Yeast high mobility group protein HMO1 stabilizes chromatin and is evicted during repair of DNA double strand breaks.
SIFTER search: a web server for accurate phylogeny-based protein function prediction.
CSI 3.0: a web server for identifying secondary and super-secondary structure in proteins using NMR chemical shifts.
Heterologous protein production using euchromatin-containing expression vectors in mammalian cells.
Longitudinal epigenetic and gene expression profiles analyzed by three-component analysis reveal down-regulation of genes involved in protein translation in human aging.
ZCURVE 3.0: identify prokaryotic genes with higher accuracy as well as automatically and accurately select essential genes.
NPDock: a web server for protein–nucleic acid docking.
BCSearch: fast structural fragment mining over large collections of protein structures.
PrionW: a server to identify proteins containing glutamine/asparagine rich prion-like domains and their amyloid cores.
DIANA-miRPath v3.0: deciphering microRNA function with experimental support.
Web-Beagle: a web server for the alignment of RNA secondary structures.
IMP 2.0: a multi-species functional genomics portal for integration, visualization and prediction of protein functions and networks.
GalaxyPepDock: a protein–peptide docking tool based on interaction similarity and energy optimization.
ClustVis: a web tool for visualizing clustering of multivariate data using Principal Component Analysis and heatmap.
The TOPCONS web server for consensus prediction of membrane protein topology and signal peptides.
XPD localizes in mitochondria and protects the mitochondrial genome from oxidative DNA damage.
Human nucleolar protein Nop52 (RRP1/NNP-1) is involved in site 2 cleavage in internal transcribed spacer 1 of pre-rRNAs at early stages of ribosome biogenesis.
Structural and sequencing analysis of local target DNA recognition by MLV integrase.
CATH FunFHMMer web server: protein functional annotations using functional family assignments.
OrthoVenn: a web server for genome wide comparison and annotation of orthologous clusters across multiple species.
RNA-Redesign: a web server for fixed-backbone 3D design of RNA.
mRNA transfection of a novel TAL effector nuclease (TALEN) facilitates efficient knockout of HIV co-receptor CCR5.
Identification of human telomerase assembly inhibitors enabled by a novel method to produce hTERT.
Pse-in-One: a web server for generating various modes of pseudo components of DNA, RNA, and protein sequences.
NaviCell Web Service for network-based data visualization.
PhyloGene server for identification and visualization of co-evolving proteins using normalized phylogenetic profiles.
SCUDO: a tool for signature-based clustering of expression profiles.
The identity of the discriminator base has an impact on CCA addition.
Intercalation processes of copper complexes in DNA.
Design and bioinformatics analysis of genome-wide CLIP experiments.
Duplex stem-loop-containing quadruplex motifs in the human genome: a combined genomic and structural study.
Versatile genetic assembly system (VEGAS) to assemble pathways for expression in S. cerevisiae.
YeastFab: the design and construction of standard biological parts for metabolic engineering in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
ProtPhylo: identification of protein–phenotype and protein–protein functional associations via phylogenetic profiling.
xVis: a web server for the schematic visualization and interpretation of crosslink-derived spatial restraints.
PockDrug-Server: a new web server for predicting pocket druggability on holo and apo proteins.
Assembly constraints drive co-evolution among ribosomal constituents.
Mitochondrial translocation of APE1 relies on the MIA pathway.
Efficient exploration of pan-cancer networks by generalized covariance selection and interactive web content.
RAX2: a genome-wide detection method of condition-associated transcription variation.
The MEME Suite.
Structure of the nuclease subunit of human mitochondrial RNase P.
Human RNase P ribonucleoprotein is required for formation of initiation complexes of RNA polymerase III.
PACCMIT/PACCMIT-CDS: identifying microRNA targets in 3′ UTRs and coding sequences.
antiSMASH 3.0—a comprehensive resource for the genome mining of biosynthetic gene clusters.
SELPHI: correlation-based identification of kinase-associated networks from global phospho-proteomics data sets.
CDK-mediated RNF4 phosphorylation regulates homologous recombination in S-phase.
HAT3-mediated acetylation of PCNA precedes PCNA monoubiquitination following exposure to UV radiation in Leishmania donovani.
Cosmetics-triggered percutaneous remote control of transgene expression in mice.
HMMER web server: 2015 update.
(PS)2: protein structure prediction server version 3.0.
FlyNet: a versatile network prioritization server for the Drosophila community.
TFmiR: a web server for constructing and analyzing disease-specific transcription factor and miRNA co-regulatory networks.
CCTOP: a Consensus Constrained TOPology prediction web server.
CABS-dock web server for the flexible docking of peptides to proteins without prior knowledge of the binding site.
MapMyFlu: visualizing spatio-temporal relationships between related influenza sequences.
FNTM: a server for predicting functional networks of tissues in mouse.
Galahad: a web server for drug effect analysis from gene expression.
NFFinder: an online bioinformatics tool for searching similar transcriptomics experiments in the context of drug repositioning.
RNAPattMatch: a web server for RNA sequence/structure motif detection based on pattern matching with flexible gaps.
Prediction of nucleic acid binding probability in proteins: a neighboring residue network based score.
Structural insights into catalysis and dimerization enhanced exonuclease activity of RNase J.
Shape-selective recognition of DNA abasic sites by metallohelices: inhibition of human AP endonuclease 1.
Assessment of small RNA sorting into different extracellular fractions revealed by high-throughput sequencing of breast cell lines.
Generation of functionally distinct isoforms of PTBP3 by alternative splicing and translation initiation.
Arginine methylation of DRBD18 differentially impacts its opposing effects on the trypanosome transcriptome.
The SOX9 upstream region prone to chromosomal aberrations causing campomelic dysplasia contains multiple cartilage enhancers.
Accurate identification of centromere locations in yeast genomes using Hi-C.
Role of intragenic binding of cAMP responsive protein (CRP) in regulation of the succinate dehydrogenase genes Rv0249c-Rv0247c in TB complex mycobacteria.
Mechanistic insights into temperature-dependent regulation of the simple cyanobacterial hsp17 RNA thermometer at base-pair resolution.
The telomerase essential N-terminal domain promotes DNA synthesis by stabilizing short RNA–DNA hybrids.
Loop flexibility in human telomeric quadruplex small-molecule complexes.
Pathways with PathWhiz.
An HDAC2-TET1 switch at distinct chromatin regions significantly promotes the maturation of pre-iPS to iPS cells.
Signal integration by the CYP1A1 promoter — a quantitative study.
Signatures of accelerated somatic evolution in gene promoters in multiple cancer types.
PUG-SOAP and PUG-REST: web services for programmatic access to chemical information in PubChem.
Localize.pytom: a modern webserver for cryo-electron tomography.
Intermolecular ‘cross-torque’: the N4-cytosine propargyl residue is rotated to the ‘CH’-edge as a result of Watson–Crick interaction.
Splice junctions are constrained by protein disorder.
MDC1 functionally identified as an androgen receptor co-activator participates in suppression of prostate cancer.
The transcriptional PPARβ/δ network in human macrophages defines a unique agonist-induced activation state.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 8 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Why weight? Modelling sample and observational level variability improves power in RNA-seq analyses.
TET1 is controlled by pluripotency-associated factors in ESCs and downmodulated by PRC2 in differentiated cells and tissues.
i-cisTarget 2015 update: generalized cis-regulatory enrichment analysis in human, mouse and fly.
PolySearch2: a significantly improved text-mining system for discovering associations between human diseases, genes, drugs, metabolites, toxins and more.
NGL Viewer: a web application for molecular visualization.
A novel sigma factor reveals a unique regulon controlling cell-specific recombination in Mycoplasma genitalium.
Translation initiation factor eIF3 promotes programmed stop codon readthrough.
Argonaute of the archaeon Pyrococcus furiosus is a DNA-guided nuclease that targets cognate DNA.
The 9-1-1 checkpoint clamp coordinates resection at DNA double strand breaks.
Molecular insights into HSD10 disease: impact of SDR5C1 mutations on the human mitochondrial RNase P complex.
Balancing acts of SRI and an auto-inhibitory domain specify Set2 function at transcribed chromatin.
Structural and functional analysis reveals that human OASL binds dsRNA to enhance RIG-I signaling.
The ribonuclease DIS3 promotes let-7 miRNA maturation by degrading the pluripotency factor LIN28B mRNA.
GenoLIB: a database of biological parts derived from a library of common plasmid features.
TP53 mutations, tetraploidy and homologous recombination repair defects in early stage high-grade serous ovarian cancer.
ChIP-Array 2: integrating multiple omics data to construct gene regulatory networks.
IslandViewer 3: more flexible, interactive genomic island discovery, visualization and analysis.
Stereochemical control of nucleosome targeting by platinum-intercalator antitumor agents.
Stable complex formation of CENP-B with the CENP-A nucleosome.
New insights into the regulatory mechanisms of ppGpp and DksA on Escherichia coli RNA polymerase–promoter complex.
Extranucleosomal DNA enhances the activity of the LSD1/CoREST histone demethylase complex.
A prophage-encoded actin-like protein required for efficient viral DNA replication in bacteria.
High levels of TopBP1 induce ATR-dependent shut-down of rRNA transcription and nucleolar segregation.
RPA70 depletion induces hSSB1/2-INTS3 complex to initiate ATR signaling.
A novel RNA binding surface of the TAM domain of TIP5/BAZ2A mediates epigenetic regulation of rRNA genes.
Structure-based functional identification of Helicobacter pylori HP0268 as a nuclease with both DNA nicking and RNase activities.
Ectopic expression of RNF168 and 53BP1 increases mutagenic but not physiological non-homologous end joining.
Dynamic signal processing by ribozyme-mediated RNA circuits to control gene expression.
Inosine modifications in human tRNAs are incorporated at the precursor tRNA level.
Identification of novel post-transcriptional features in olfactory receptor family mRNAs.
A new transcription factor for mitosis: in Schizosaccharomyces pombe, the RFX transcription factor Sak1 works with forkhead factors to regulate mitotic expression.
Targeting chromatin binding regulation of constitutively active AR variants to overcome prostate cancer resistance to endocrine-based therapies.
Stock-based detection of protein oligomeric states in jsPISA.
Identification of recurrent regulated alternative splicing events across human solid tumors.
RSAT 2015: Regulatory Sequence Analysis Tools.
Introducing the PRIDE Archive RESTful web services.
BetaCavityWeb: a webserver for molecular voids and channels.
Interspecific adaptation by binary choice at de novo polyomavirus T antigen site through accelerated codon-constrained Val-Ala toggling within an intrinsically disordered region.
On the mechanism of RNA phosphodiester backbone cleavage in the absence of solvent.
Crystal structure of the Bloom's syndrome helicase indicates a role for the HRDC domain in conformational changes.
Sequencing the cap-snatching repertoire of H1N1 influenza provides insight into the mechanism of viral transcription initiation.
Dissecting the nascent human transcriptome by analysing the RNA content of transcription factories.
Synthesis of 2′-Fluoro RNA by Syn5 RNA polymerase.
The iceLogo web server and SOAP service for determining protein consensus sequences.
RBO Aleph: leveraging novel information sources for protein structure prediction.
miRiadne: a web tool for consistent integration of miRNA nomenclature.
The BioMart community portal: an innovative alternative to large, centralized data repositories.
Babelomics 5.0: functional interpretation for new generations of genomic data.
pyDockSAXS: protein–protein complex structure by SAXS and computational docking.
MetaboAnalyst 3.0—making metabolomics more meaningful.
Splicing of many human genes involves sites embedded within introns.
The effect of RNA base lesions on mRNA translation.
Genetic analysis of L123 of the tRNA-mimicking eukaryote release factor eRF1, an amino acid residue critical for discrimination of stop codons.
Evolution of intraspecific transcriptomic landscapes in yeasts.
BLM unfolds G-quadruplexes in different structural environments through different mechanisms.
ChiNet uncovers rewired transcription subnetworks in tolerant yeast for advanced biofuels conversion.
Implications of macromolecular crowding and reducing conditions for in vitro ribosome construction.
Repression of hypoxia-inducible factor α signaling by Set7-mediated methylation.
Functional validation of mouse tyrosinase non-coding regulatory DNA elements by CRISPR–Cas9-mediated mutagenesis.
The amino-terminal tails of histones H2A and H3 coordinate efficient base excision repair, DNA damage signaling and postreplication repair in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
RAR/RXR binding dynamics distinguish pluripotency from differentiation associated cis-regulatory elements.
Local DNA dynamics shape mutational patterns of mononucleotide repeats in human genomes.
Single-cell, locus-specific bisulfite sequencing (SLBS) for direct detection of epimutations in DNA methylation patterns.
A variable DNA recognition site organization establishes the LiaR-mediated cell envelope stress response of enterococci to daptomycin.
Thioflavin T as a fluorescence probe for monitoring RNA metabolism at molecular and cellular levels.
Allele-specific copy-number discovery from whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing.
Telomere-associated proteins add deoxynucleotides to terminal proteins during replication of the telomeres of linear chromosomes and plasmids in Streptomyces.
webSDA: a web server to simulate macromolecular diffusional association.
CellWhere: graphical display of interaction networks organized on subcellular localizations.
QmRLFS-finder: a model, web server and stand-alone tool for prediction and analysis of R-loop forming sequences.
JPred4: a protein secondary structure prediction server.
ENCoM server: exploring protein conformational space and the effect of mutations on protein function and stability.
Assessing the impact of mutations found in next generation sequencing data over human signaling pathways.
FAF-Drugs3: a web server for compound property calculation and chemical library design.
I-TASSER server: new development for protein structure and function predictions.
The ReproGenomics Viewer: an integrative cross-species toolbox for the reproductive science community.
ChEMBL web services: streamlining access to drug discovery data and utilities.
GUIDANCE2: accurate detection of unreliable alignment regions accounting for the uncertainty of multiple parameters.
AGGRESCAN3D (A3D): server for prediction of aggregation properties of protein structures.
A novel family of integrases associated with prophages and genomic islands integrated within the tRNA-dihydrouridine synthase A (dusA) gene.
Survey of protein–DNA interactions in Aspergillus oryzae on a genomic scale.
The many faces of Dicer: the complexity of the mechanisms regulating Dicer gene expression and enzyme activities.
DNA damage-induced activation of CUL4B targets HUWE1 for proteasomal degradation.
The B-WICH chromatin-remodelling complex regulates RNA polymerase III transcription by promoting Max-dependent c-Myc binding.
Integrative genomic analysis reveals widespread enhancer regulation by p53 in response to DNA damage.
PheNetic: network-based interpretation of molecular profiling data.
NGS-eval: NGS Error analysis and novel sequence VAriant detection tooL.
Splice-shifting oligonucleotide (SSO) mediated blocking of an exonic splicing enhancer (ESE) created by the prevalent c.903+469T>C MTRR mutation corrects splicing and restores enzyme activity in patient cells.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 7 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
cMonkey2: Automated, systematic, integrated detection of co-regulated gene modules for any organism.
Microfluidic droplet enrichment for targeted sequencing.
PLIP: fully automated protein–ligand interaction profiler.
NMD3 regulates both mRNA and rRNA nuclear export in African trypanosomes via an XPOI-linked pathway.
Regulation of NEIL1 protein abundance by RAD9 is important for efficient base excision repair.
Assessing the translational landscape of myogenic differentiation by ribosome profiling.
Improving small RNA-seq by using a synthetic spike-in set for size-range quality control together with a set for data normalization.
Large scale analysis of the mutational landscape in HT-SELEX improves aptamer discovery.
Identification of protein coding regions in RNA transcripts.
Functional interplay between the RK motif and linker segment dictates Oct4–DNA recognition.
Protein degradation and dynamic tRNA thiolation fine-tune translation at elevated temperatures.
CWC22-dependent pre-mRNA splicing and eIF4A3 binding enables global deposition of exon junction complexes.
A serine–arginine-rich (SR) splicing factor modulates alternative splicing of over a thousand genes in Toxoplasma gondii.
Live cell imaging of duplex siRNA intracellular trafficking.
Linker histone partial phosphorylation: effects on secondary structure and chromatin condensation.
Major centers of motion in the large ribosomal RNAs.
WAXSiS: a web server for the calculation of SAXS/WAXS curves based on explicit-solvent molecular dynamics.
MTiOpenScreen: a web server for structure-based virtual screening.
SANSparallel: interactive homology search against Uniprot.
The EBI Search engine: providing search and retrieval functionality for biological data from EMBL-EBI.
TCS: a web server for multiple sequence alignment evaluation and phylogenetic reconstruction.
The HIV-1 Rev response element (RRE) adopts alternative conformations that promote different rates of virus replication.
Structural and functional analysis of the Rpf2-Rrs1 complex in ribosome biogenesis.
2′-Fluoro-modified phosphorothioate oligonucleotide can cause rapid degradation of P54nrb and PSF.
Unique C. elegans telomeric overhang structures reveal the evolutionarily conserved properties of telomeric DNA.
The COP9 signalosome is vital for timely repair of DNA double-strand breaks.
Determinants of the CmoB carboxymethyl transferase utilized for selective tRNA wobble modification.
Are mutagenic non D-loop direct repeat motifs in mitochondrial DNA under a negative selection pressure?
The EMBL-EBI bioinformatics web and programmatic tools framework.
Molecular crowding enhances facilitated diffusion of two human DNA glycosylases.
Reconstructing genome-scale metabolic models with merlin.
A universal strategy for regulating mRNA translation in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells.
A common tRNA modification at an unusual location: the discovery of wyosine biosynthesis in mitochondria.
Gadd45a promotes DNA demethylation through TDG.
Uncoupling histone turnover from transcription-associated histone H3 modifications.
Nuclear pore components affect distinct stages of intron-containing gene expression.
A functional screen identifies miRNAs that inhibit DNA repair and sensitize prostate cancer cells to ionizing radiation.
Structures of Escherichia coli DNA adenine methyltransferase (Dam) in complex with a non-GATC sequence: potential implications for methylation-independent transcriptional repression.
RBM7 subunit of the NEXT complex binds U-rich sequences and targets 3′-end extended forms of snRNAs.
Heat-induced ribosome pausing triggers mRNA co-translational decay in Arabidopsis thaliana.
Splicing factor SRSF1 negatively regulates alternative splicing of MDM2 under damage.
Specificity of the ModA11, ModA12 and ModD1 epigenetic regulator N6-adenine DNA methyltransferases of Neisseria meningitidis.
Next-generation sequencing reveals the biological significance of the N2,3-ethenoguanine lesion in vivo.
Robust meta-analysis of gene expression using the elastic net.
An update on LNCipedia: a database for annotated human lncRNA sequences.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 6 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
High-throughput assay and engineering of self-cleaving ribozymes by sequencing.
Boosting riboswitch efficiency by RNA amplification.
Nucleosomes undergo slow spontaneous gaping.
Differences in genome-wide repeat sequence instability conferred by proofreading and mismatch repair defects.
RNA editing by T7 RNA polymerase bypasses InDel mutations causing unexpected phenotypic changes.
Effects of Hfq on the conformation and compaction of DNA.
Heterogeneous dynamics in DNA site discrimination by the structurally homologous DNA-binding domains of ETS-family transcription factors.
Heme activation by DNA: isoguanine pentaplexes, but not quadruplexes, bind heme and enhance its oxidative activity.
The interaction of mycobacterial protein Rv2966c with host chromatin is mediated through non-CpG methylation and histone H3/H4 binding.
Suppression of the E. coli SOS response by dNTP pool changes.
The hexameric structure of the human mitochondrial replicative helicase Twinkle.
Active displacement of RecA filaments by UvrD translocase activity.
Selective inhibition of miR-21 by phage display screened peptide.
RefSeq microbial genomes database: new representation and annotation strategy.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 WEB SERVER ISSUE JULY 1, 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
IntFOLD: an integrated server for modelling protein structures and functions from amino acid sequences.
A method for mutagenesis of mouse mtDNA and a resource of mouse mtDNA mutations for modeling human pathological conditions.
New insights into the performance of human whole-exome capture platforms.
A thesaurus of genetic variation for interrogation of repetitive genomic regions.
RoboOligo: software for mass spectrometry data to support manual and de novo sequencing of post-transcriptionally modified ribonucleic acids.
RNA polymerase II pausing can be retained or acquired during activation of genes involved in the epithelial to mesenchymal transition.
Significance of ligand interactions involving Hop2-Mnd1 and the RAD51 and DMC1 recombinases in homologous DNA repair and XX ovarian dysgenesis.
Modeling the relationship of epigenetic modifications to transcription factor binding.
The structural impact of DNA mismatches.
The feedback control of UPF3 is crucial for RNA surveillance in plants.
Distribution of DNA-condensing protein complexes in the adenovirus core.
A new approach for annotation of transposable elements using small RNA mapping.
Post-conversion targeted capture of modified cytosines in mammalian and plant genomes.
RiceNet v2: an improved network prioritization server for rice genes.
AKT phosphorylates H3-threonine 45 to facilitate termination of gene transcription in response to DNA damage.
Intramolecular circularization increases efficiency of RNA sequencing and enables CLIP-Seq of nuclear RNA from human cells.
H3K4 monomethylation dictates nucleosome dynamics and chromatin remodeling at stress-responsive genes.
Regulation of yeast DNA polymerase δ-mediated strand displacement synthesis by 5′-flaps.
Epigenetic regulation of intragenic transposable elements impacts gene transcription in Arabidopsis thaliana.
SubmiRine: assessing variants in microRNA targets using clinical genomic data sets.
The NEIL glycosylases remove oxidized guanine lesions from telomeric and promoter quadruplex DNA structures.
Disruption of PARP1 function inhibits base excision repair of a sub-set of DNA lesions.
Subunit compositions of Arabidopsis RNA polymerases I and III reveal Pol I- and Pol III-specific forms of the AC40 subunit and alternative forms of the C53 subunit.
New insights into Hoogsteen base pairs in DNA duplexes from a structure-based survey.
A set of powerful negative selection systems for unmodified Enterobacteriaceae.
SplicePie: a novel analytical approach for the detection of alternative, non-sequential and recursive splicing.
Identification of human MutY homolog (hMYH) as a repair enzyme for 2-hydroxyadenine in DNA and detection of multiple forms of hMYH located in nuclei and mitochondria.
Pathway analysis from lists of microRNAs: common pitfalls and alternative strategy.
The chromatin scaffold protein SAFB1 localizes SUMO-1 to the promoters of ribosomal protein genes to facilitate transcription initiation and splicing.
Two RNA recognition motif-containing proteins are plant mitochondrial editing factors.
Mycoreovirus genome rearrangements associated with RNA silencing deficiency.
PCAF-primed EZH2 acetylation regulates its stability and promotes lung adenocarcinoma progression.
A model for transcription initiation in human mitochondria.
Identification of lncRNA-associated competing triplets reveals global patterns and prognostic markers for cancer.
A general approach to high-yield biosynthesis of chimeric RNAs bearing various types of functional small RNAs for broad applications.
Advances in CRISPR-Cas9 genome engineering: lessons learned from RNA interference.
Magnesium-binding architectures in RNA crystal structures: validation, binding preferences, classification and motif detection.
Cells deficient in base-excision repair reveal cancer hallmarks originating from adjustments to genetic instability.
Assessing the limits of restraint-based 3D modeling of genomes and genomic domains.
Mechano-chemical kinetics of DNA replication: identification of the translocation step of a replicative DNA polymerase.
Ribosome A and P sites revealed by length analysis of ribosome profiling data.
Integrating motif, DNA accessibility and gene expression data to build regulatory maps in an organism.
Dumbbell-PCR: a method to quantify specific small RNA variants with a single nucleotide resolution at terminal sequences.
mRNA maturation in giant viruses: variation on a theme.
Quantitative analysis of single-molecule force spectroscopy on folded chromatin fibers.
An Lnc RNA (GAS5)/SnoRNA-derived piRNA induces activation of TRAIL gene by site-specifically recruiting MLL/COMPASS-like complexes.
Epstein–Barr virus transcription factor Zta acts through distal regulatory elements to directly control cellular gene expression.
Invadolysin acts genetically via the SAGA complex to modulate chromosome structure.
The nuclease FAN1 is involved in DNA crosslink repair in Arabidopsis thaliana independently of the nuclease MUS81.
What matters for lac repressor search in vivo—sliding, hopping, intersegment transfer, crowding on DNA or recognition?
DAP5 associates with eIF2β and eIF4AI to promote Internal Ribosome Entry Site driven translation.
Identification of U2AF(35)-dependent exons by RNA-Seq reveals a link between 3′ splice-site organization and activity of U2AF-related proteins.
Chemical and structural characterization of interstrand cross-links formed between abasic sites and adenine residues in duplex DNA.
Distinguishing between productive and abortive promoters using a random forest classifier in Mycoplasma pneumoniae.
Embryonic expression of endogenous retroviral RNAs in somatic tissues adjacent to the Oikopleura germline.
Deacetylase inhibitors repress STAT5-mediated transcription by interfering with bromodomain and extra-terminal (BET) protein function.
DNA cleavage by CgII and NgoAVII requires interaction between N- and R-proteins and extensive nucleotide hydrolysis.
A statistical framework for revealing signaling pathways perturbed by DNA variants.
Broadening the versatility of lentiviral vectors as a tool in nucleic acid research via genetic code expansion.
Probing a label-free local bend in DNA by single molecule tethered particle motion.
A fluorescence-based helicase assay: application to the screening of G-quadruplex ligands.
Accurate read-based metagenome characterization using a hierarchical suite of unique signatures.
Analysis of strand-specific RNA-seq data using machine learning reveals the structures of transcription units in Clostridium thermocellum.
Unwinding forward and sliding back: an intermittent unwinding mode of the BLM helicase.
Srs2 promotes Mus81–Mms4-mediated resolution of recombination intermediates.
Evolutionary patterns of DNA base composition and correlation to polymorphisms in DNA repair systems.
H3K9 methyltransferase G9a negatively regulates UHRF1 transcription during leukemia cell differentiation.
The structure of human SFPQ reveals a coiled-coil mediated polymer essential for functional aggregation in gene regulation.
A diverse epigenetic landscape at human exons with implication for expression.
The hub protein loquacious connects the microRNA and short interfering RNA pathways in mosquitoes.
Trade-offs between tRNA abundance and mRNA secondary structure support smoothing of translation elongation rate.
RAD54 family translocases counter genotoxic effects of RAD51 in human tumor cells.
Silent mutations at codons 65 and 66 in reverse transcriptase alleviate indel formation and restore fitness in subtype B HIV-1 containing D67N and K70R drug resistance mutations.
Single molecule TPM analysis of the catalytic pentad mutants of Cre and Flp site-specific recombinases: contributions of the pentad residues to the pre-chemical steps of recombination.
Genome engineering of isogenic human ES cells to model autism disorders.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 5 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Fast and sensitive detection of indels induced by precise gene targeting.
Development of a high-resolution NGS-based HLA-typing and analysis pipeline.
The ribonucleotidyl transferase USIP-1 acts with SART3 to promote U6 snRNA recycling.
Genome-wide CIITA-binding profile identifies sequence preferences that dictate function versus recruitment.
Insulin-response epigenetic activation of Egr-1 and JunB genes at the nuclear periphery by A-type lamin-associated pY19-Caveolin-2 in the inner nuclear membrane.
Effects of DNA3′pp5′G capping on 3′ end repair reactions and of an embedded pyrophosphate-linked guanylate on ribonucleotide surveillance.
Structural insight into the mechanism of stabilization of the 7SK small nuclear RNA by LARP7.
Stabilization of eukaryotic ribosomal termination complexes by deacylated tRNA.
An intrinsically disordered region of methyl-CpG binding domain protein 2 (MBD2) recruits the histone deacetylase core of the NuRD complex.
Short antisense-locked nucleic acids (all-LNAs) correct alternative splicing abnormalities in myotonic dystrophy.
Identification of metabolically stable 5′-phosphate analogs that support single-stranded siRNA activity.
Involvement of ATM in homologous recombination after end resection and RAD51 nucleofilament formation.
A novel role for the mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase PARP14/ARTD8 in promoting homologous recombination and protecting against replication stress.
Dissecting the behavior and function of MBD3 in DNA methylation homeostasis by single-molecule spectroscopy and microscopy.
Hypoxia-induced gene expression results from selective mRNA partitioning to the endoplasmic reticulum.
Malleable nature of mRNA-protein compositional complementarity and its functional significance.
Crystal structure of Hop2–Mnd1 and mechanistic insights into its role in meiotic recombination.
An LRP16-containing preassembly complex contributes to NF-κB activation induced by DNA double-strand breaks.
Cwc21p promotes the second step conformation of the spliceosome and modulates 3′ splice site selection.
How ‘arm-twisting’ by the inducer triggers activation of the MalT transcription factor, a typical signal transduction ATPase with numerous domains (STAND).
U1 snRNP is mislocalized in ALS patient fibroblasts bearing NLS mutations in FUS and is required for motor neuron outgrowth in zebrafish.
Crystal structures of the Gon7/Pcc1 and Bud32/Cgi121 complexes provide a model for the complete yeast KEOPS complex.
New insights into stop codon recognition by eRF1.
The architecture of ArgR-DNA complexes at the genome-scale in Escherichia coli.
A positioned +1 nucleosome enhances promoter-proximal pausing.
The contribution of cohesin-SA1 to gene expression and chromatin architecture in two murine tissues.
Multimerization of Drosophila sperm protein Mst77F causes a unique condensed chromatin structure.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 4 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
multiSNV: a probabilistic approach for improving detection of somatic point mutations from multiple related tumour samples.
SC3-seq: a method for highly parallel and quantitative measurement of single-cell gene expression.
RNAe: an effective method for targeted protein translation enhancement by artificial non-coding RNA with SINEB2 repeat.
Base-resolution methylation patterns accurately predict transcription factor bindings in vivo.
DNA repair and recovery of RNA synthesis following exposure to ultraviolet light are delayed in long genes.
Dynamic Escherichia coli SeqA complexes organize the newly replicated DNA at a considerable distance from the replisome.
The RNA helicase DDX6 regulates cell-fate specification in neural stem cells via miRNAs.
Unraveling the mechanistic features of RNA polymerase II termination by the 5′-3′ exoribonuclease Rat1.
Structural basis for recognition of G-1-containing tRNA by histidyl-tRNA synthetase.
Dissecting the role of the ϕ29 terminal protein DNA binding residues in viral DNA replication.
3dRNAscore: a distance and torsion angle dependent evaluation function of 3D RNA structures.
Lesion search and recognition by thymine DNA glycosylase revealed by single molecule imaging.
Assessing the prevalence of mycoplasma contamination in cell culture via a survey of NCBI's RNA-seq archive.
Roles of Rad51 paralogs for promoting homologous recombination in Leishmania infantum.
The beta hairpin structure within ribosomal protein S5 mediates interplay between domains II and IV and regulates HCV IRES function.
H3K4me3 demethylation by the histone demethylase KDM5C/JARID1C promotes DNA replication origin firing.
Generation of a conditionally self-eliminating HAC gene delivery vector through incorporation of a tTAVP64 expression cassette.
Gene-specific cell labeling using MiMIC transposons.
A genome-wide analysis of Cas9 binding specificity using ChIP-seq and targeted sequence capture.
Identification and characterization of intracellular proteins that bind oligonucleotides with phosphorothioate linkages.
Inhibition of HCV translation by disrupting the structure and interactions of the viral CRE and 3′ X-tail.
EWS-FLI1 employs an E2F switch to drive target gene expression.
Structural plasticity of Cid1 provides a basis for its distributive RNA terminal uridylyl transferase activity.
Structure and regulatory role of the C-terminal winged helix domain of the archaeal minichromosome maintenance complex.
Ovarian carcinoma CDK12 mutations misregulate expression of DNA repair genes via deficient formation and function of the Cdk12/CycK complex.
Multiple facets of histone variant H2AX: a DNA double-strand-break marker with several biological functions.
CarD stabilizes mycobacterial open complexes via a two-tiered kinetic mechanism.
Restriction-modification system with methyl-inhibited base excision and abasic-site cleavage activities.
Alu RNA regulates the cellular pool of active ribosomes by targeted delivery of SRP9/14 to 40S subunits.
A novel endonuclease that may be responsible for damaged DNA base repair in Pyrococcus furiosus.
In plants, decapping prevents RDR6-dependent production of small interfering RNAs from endogenous mRNAs.
bHLH proteins involved in Drosophila neurogenesis are mutually regulated at the level of stability.
Highly efficient CRISPR/Cas9-mediated TAR cloning of genes and chromosomal loci from complex genomes in yeast.
Inferential modeling of 3D chromatin structure.
The nucleoporin Mlp2 is involved in chromosomal distribution during mitosis in trypanosomatids.
High-throughput data integration of RNA–miRNA–circRNA reveals novel insights into mechanisms of benzo[a]pyrene-induced carcinogenicity.
2-Thiouracil deprived of thiocarbonyl function preferentially base pairs with guanine rather than adenine in RNA and DNA duplexes.
RNA polymerase-induced remodelling of NusA produces a pause enhancement complex.
Accurate multiplexing and filtering for high-throughput amplicon-sequencing.
Synergistic effects of ATP and RNA binding to human DEAD-box protein DDX1.
TEFM is a potent stimulator of mitochondrial transcription elongation in vitro.
CHK1-driven histone H3.3 serine 31 phosphorylation is important for chromatin maintenance and cell survival in human ALT cancer cells.
Epigenetic remodeling in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia occurs in two tracks and employs embryonic stem cell-like signatures.
Single-molecule kinetics and footprinting of DNA bis-intercalation: the paradigmatic case of Thiocoraline.
Identification of a second GTP-bound magnesium ion in archaeal initiation factor 2.
Concerted and differential actions of two enzymatic domains underlie Rad5 contributions to DNA damage tolerance.
Single molecule analysis of Trypanosoma brucei DNA replication dynamics.
Functional mapping of the plant small RNA methyltransferase: HEN1 physically interacts with HYL1 and DICER-LIKE 1 proteins.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 3 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Following the footprints of polymorphic inversions on SNP data: from detection to association tests.
Development of synthetic selfish elements based on modular nucleases in Drosophila melanogaster.
Human Rap1 modulates TRF2 attraction to telomeric DNA.
Replication fork integrity and intra-S phase checkpoint suppress gene amplification.
Brr2 plays a role in spliceosomal activation in addition to U4/U6 unwinding.
Structural insights into the recognition of the internal A-rich linker from OxyS sRNA by Escherichia coli Hfq.
Conformational changes in the P site and mRNA entry channel evoked by AUG recognition in yeast translation preinitiation complexes.
DNA recognition by Escherichia coli CbpA protein requires a conserved arginine–minor-groove interaction.
Structural role of the flanking DNA in mariner transposon excision.
Mechanism of foreign DNA recognition by a CRISPR RNA-guided surveillance complex from Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
Combinatorial recognition of a complex telomere repeat sequence by the Candida parapsilosis Cdc13AB heterodimer.
Visualization and quantitative analysis of extrachromosomal telomere-repeat DNA in individual human cells by Halo-FISH.
HP1BP3 is a novel histone H1 related protein with essential roles in viability and growth.
MicroRNA-26a induced by hypoxia targets HDAC6 in myogenic differentiation of embryonic stem cells.
Degradation of DNA damage-independently stalled RNA polymerase II is independent of the E3 ligase Elc1.
Defining the sequence requirements for the positioning of base J in DNA using SMRT sequencing.
Autonomous actions of the human growth hormone long-range enhancer.
FUBP1: a new protagonist in splicing regulation of the DMD gene.
Direct observation of the translocation mechanism of transcription termination factor Rho.
Nucleotide excision repair efficiency in quiescent human fibroblasts is modulated by circadian clock.
Analyzing ion distributions around DNA: sequence-dependence of potassium ion distributions from microsecond molecular dynamics.
Complementation of aprataxin deficiency by base excision repair enzymes.
Effects of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase connection subdomain mutations on polypurine tract removal and initiation of (+)-strand DNA synthesis.
FF483–484 motif of human Polη mediates its interaction with the POLD2 subunit of Polδ and contributes to DNA damage tolerance.
Transfer activation of SXT/R391 integrative and conjugative elements: unraveling the SetCD regulon.
Luzp4 defines a new mRNA export pathway in cancer cells.
High-throughput screening identifies small molecules that enhance the pharmacological effects of oligonucleotides.
Impact of template backbone heterogeneity on RNA polymerase II transcription.
RNA circularization strategies in vivo and in vitro.
Viroid RNA turnover: characterization of the subgenomic RNAs of potato spindle tuber viroid accumulating in infected tissues provides insights into decay pathways operating in vivo.
A rapid and sensitive high-throughput screening method to identify compounds targeting protein–nucleic acids interactions.
CAGEr: precise TSS data retrieval and high-resolution promoterome mining for integrative analyses.
Fungal Ku prevents permanent cell cycle arrest by suppressing DNA damage signaling at telomeres.
Yeast Kre33 and human NAT10 are conserved 18S rRNA cytosine acetyltransferases that modify tRNAs assisted by the adaptor Tan1/THUMPD1.
Identifying core gene modules in glioblastoma based on multilayer factor-mediated dysfunctional regulatory networks through integrating multi-dimensional genomic data.
Structural and functional characterization of a cell cycle associated HDAC1/2 complex reveals the structural basis for complex assembly and nucleosome targeting.
Telomeric repeat-containing RNA/G-quadruplex-forming sequences cause genome-wide alteration of gene expression in human cancer cells in vivo.
Identification of a new ribose methylation in the 18S rRNA of S. cerevisiae.
Characterization of the mammalian miRNA turnover landscape.
Effects of physiological self-crowding of DNA on shape and biological properties of DNA molecules with various levels of supercoiling.
Stable heteroplasmy at the single-cell level is facilitated by intercellular exchange of mtDNA.
Insights into the mechanism of a G-quadruplex-unwinding DEAH-box helicase.
Spatial re-organization of myogenic regulatory sequences temporally controls gene expression.
qDNAmod: a statistical model-based tool to reveal intercellular heterogeneity of DNA modification from SMRT sequencing data.
Sequence-specific cleavage of dsRNA by Mini-III RNase.
Integrated mechanism for the generation of the 5′ junctions of LINE inserts.
The Mediator complex of Caenorhabditis elegans: insights into the developmental and physiological roles of a conserved transcriptional coregulator.
Genome-wide features of neuroendocrine regulation in Drosophila by the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor DIMMED.
Increased functional protein expression using nucleotide sequence features enriched in highly expressed genes in zebrafish.
Regulation of mammalian nucleotide metabolism and biosynthesis.
Accurate transcriptome-wide prediction of microRNA targets and small interfering RNA off-targets with MIRZA-G.
Recombinase and translesion DNA polymerase decrease the speed of replication fork progression during the DNA damage response in Escherichia coli cells.
NTF2-like domain of Tap plays a critical role in cargo mRNA recognition and export.
Functional regulation of the DNA damage-recognition factor DDB2 by ubiquitination and interaction with xeroderma pigmentosum group C protein.
An intercalation-locked parallel-stranded DNA tetraplex.
The principal mRNA nuclear export factor NXF1:NXT1 forms a symmetric binding platform that facilitates export of retroviral CTE-RNA.
A physiological significance of the functional interaction between Mus81 and Rad27 in homologous recombination repair.
The POLD3 subunit of DNA polymerase δ can promote translesion synthesis independently of DNA polymerase ζ.
A defense-offense multi-layered regulatory switch in a pathogenic bacterium.
A moonlighting metabolic protein influences repair at DNA double-stranded breaks.
Human regulator of telomere elongation helicase 1 (RTEL1) is required for the nuclear and cytoplasmic trafficking of pre-U2 RNA.
Solid-phase cloning for high-throughput assembly of single and multiple DNA parts.
CODEX: a normalization and copy number variation detection method for whole exome sequencing.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 2 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Engineered ribosomal RNA operon copy-number variants of E. coli reveal the evolutionary trade-offs shaping rRNA operon number.
Domain organization within the nuclear export factor Mex67:Mtr2 generates an extended mRNA binding surface.
Structural insight into how the human helicase subunit MCM2 may act as a histone chaperone together with ASF1 at the replication fork.
Identification of novel Arabidopsis thaliana upstream open reading frames that control expression of the main coding sequences in a peptide sequence-dependent manner.
Detecting riboSNitches with RNA folding algorithms: a genome-wide benchmark.
A basal level of DNA damage and telomere deprotection increases the sensitivity of cancer cells to G-quadruplex interactive compounds.
Function of the N-terminal segment of the RecA-dependent nuclease Ref.
Genome-wide analyses of LINE–LINE-mediated nonallelic homologous recombination.
Ad 2.0: a novel recombineering platform for high-throughput generation of tailored adenoviruses.
The solution structure of the pentatricopeptide repeat protein PPR10 upon binding atpH RNA.
ZBTB2 increases PDK4 expression by transcriptional repression of RelA/p65.
Global Oct4 target gene analysis reveals novel downstream PTEN and TNC genes required for drug-resistance and metastasis in lung cancer.
RPI-Pred: predicting ncRNA-protein interaction using sequence and structural information.
The Krüppel-associated box repressor domain induces reversible and irreversible regulation of endogenous mouse genes by mediating different chromatin states.
Enhancer modeling uncovers transcriptional signatures of individual cardiac cell states in Drosophila.
limma powers differential expression analyses for RNA-sequencing and microarray studies.
Molecular mechanisms in DM1 — a focus on foci.
A minimal ubiquitous chromatin opening element (UCOE) effectively prevents silencing of juxtaposed heterologous promoters by epigenetic remodeling in multipotent and pluripotent stem cells.
Evaluating the potential for undesired genomic effects of the piggyBac transposon system in human cells.
Alternative splicing regulates the expression of G9A and SUV39H2 methyltransferases, and dramatically changes SUV39H2 functions.
A KALA-modified lipid nanoparticle containing CpG-free plasmid DNA as a potential DNA vaccine carrier for antigen presentation and as an immune-stimulative adjuvant.
Bacterial global regulators DksA/ppGpp increase fidelity of transcription.
ARGONAUTE2 cooperates with SWI/SNF complex to determine nucleosome occupancy at human Transcription Start Sites.
Identification of protein complexes that bind to histone H3 combinatorial modifications using super-SILAC and weighted correlation network analysis.
Identification of the target DNA sequence and characterization of DNA binding features of HlyU, and suggestion of a redox switch for hlyA expression in the human pathogen Vibrio cholerae from in silico studies.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 DATABASE ISSUE JANUARY 28, 2015.
Subscriptions.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Development of a unique epigenetic signature during in vivo Th17 differentiation.
A systematic survey of the Cys2His2 zinc finger DNA-binding landscape.
Primary and secondary siRNA synthesis triggered by RNAs from food bacteria in the ciliate Paramecium tetraurelia.
Interaction between the RNA-dependent ATPase and poly(A) polymerase subunits of the TRAMP complex is mediated by short peptides and important for snoRNA processing.
Sequences spanning the leader-repeat junction mediate CRISPR adaptation to phage in Streptococcus thermophilus.
DNA lesion identity drives choice of damage tolerance pathway in murine cell chromosomes.
Amplification of small molecule-inducible gene expression via tuning of intracellular receptor densities.
Opposing roles of H3- and H4-acetylation in the regulation of nucleosome structure—a FRET study.
An ensemble strategy that significantly improves de novo assembly of microbial genomes from metagenomic next-generation sequencing data.
Efficient CRISPR-rAAV engineering of endogenous genes to study protein function by allele-specific RNAi.
Protein–RNA specificity by high-throughput principal component analysis of NMR spectra.
Insight into biases and sequencing errors for amplicon sequencing with the Illumina MiSeq platform.
53BP1 promotes microhomology-mediated end-joining in G1-phase cells.
Defining the transcriptomic landscape of Candida glabrata by RNA-Seq.
Sparse expression bases in cancer reveal tumor drivers.
Protein mistranslation protects bacteria against oxidative stress.
The ATP-mediated formation of the YgjD–YeaZ–YjeE complex is required for the biosynthesis of tRNA t6A in Escherichia coli.
Detection of recurrent alternative splicing switches in tumor samples reveals novel signatures of cancer.
DNA-mediated cooperativity facilitates the co-selection of cryptic enhancer sequences by SOX2 and PAX6 transcription factors.
Transient DNMT1 suppression reveals hidden heritable marks in the genome.
Two novel NAC transcription factors regulate gene expression and flowering time by associating with the histone demethylase JMJ14.
Repressor activity of the RpoS/σS-dependent RNA polymerase requires DNA binding.
The ATP binding site of the chromatin remodeling homolog Lsh is required for nucleosome density and de novo DNA methylation at repeat sequences.
DICER-dependent biogenesis of let-7 miRNAs affects human cell response to DNA damage via targeting p21/p27.
Nucleic Acids Research: VOLUME 43 ISSUE 1 2015.
Nucleic Acids Research: Editorial Board.
Subscriptions.
Patient-specific driver gene prediction and risk assessment through integrated network analysis of cancer omics profiles.
Transcriptional inhibition and mutagenesis induced by N-nitroso compound-derived carboxymethylated thymidine adducts in DNA.
Inter-individual variability contrasts with regional homogeneity in the human brain DNA methylome.
Specific and non-specific interactions of ParB with DNA: implications for chromosome segregation.
A composite enhancer regulates p63 gene expression in epidermal morphogenesis and in keratinocyte differentiation by multiple mechanisms.
REV7 is essential for DNA damage tolerance via two REV3L binding sites in mammalian DNA polymerase ζ.
Neddylation inhibits CtIP-mediated resection and regulates DNA double strand break repair pathway choice.
Transcriptional regulator-mediated activation of adaptation genes triggers CRISPR de novo spacer acquisition.
DNA binding by FOXP3 domain-swapped dimer suggests mechanisms of long-range chromosomal interactions.
Bcl2 inhibits recruitment of Mre11 complex to DNA double-strand breaks in response to high-linear energy transfer radiation.
Multilayered genetic safeguards limit growth of microorganisms to defined environments.
iRNA-seq: computational method for genome-wide assessment of acute transcriptional regulation from total RNA-seq data.
Recognition and cleavage of 5-methylcytosine DNA by bacterial SRA-HNH proteins.
Structural insight into operator dre-sites recognition and effector binding in the GntR/HutC transcription regulator NagR.
Global coordination in adaptation to gene rewiring.
Escherichia coli antitoxin MazE as transcription factor: insights into MazE-DNA binding.
Recognition of duplex RNA by the deaminase domain of the RNA editing enzyme ADAR2.
RNA helicase A activity is inhibited by oncogenic transcription factor EWS-FLI1.
Loop L1 governs the DNA-binding specificity and order for RecA-catalyzed reactions in homologous recombination and DNA repair.
