MN1–Fli1 oncofusion transforms murine hematopoietic progenitor cells into acute megakaryoblastic leukemia cells.
CancerNet: a database for decoding multilevel molecular interactions across diverse cancer types.
Chloroquine alleviates etoposide-induced centrosome amplification by inhibiting CDK2 in adrenocortical tumor cells.
TERT promoter mutations and monoallelic activation of TERT in cancer.
A positive feedback loop between Gli1 and tyrosine kinase Hck amplifies shh signaling activities in medulloblastoma.
Prognostic significance of Versican expression in gastric adenocarcinoma.
Targeting self-renewal pathways in cancer stem cells: clinical implications for cancer therapy.
Multiple region whole-exome sequencing reveals dramatically evolving intratumor genomic heterogeneity in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
A novel BRD4-NUT fusion in an undifferentiated sinonasal tumor highlights alternative splicing as a contributing oncogenic factor in NUT midline carcinoma.
TIFA, an inflammatory signaling adaptor, is tumor suppressive for liver cancer.
Nodes-and-connections RNAi knockdown screening: identification of a signaling molecule network involved in fulvestrant action and breast cancer prognosis.
Epstein–Barr virus LMP1 induces focal adhesions and epithelial cell migration through effects on integrin-α5 and N-cadherin.
MiR expression profiles of paired primary colorectal cancer and metastases by next-generation sequencing.
PIK3CA mutations can initiate pancreatic tumorigenesis and are targetable with PI3K inhibitors.
Regulation of triple-negative breast cancer cell metastasis by the tumor-suppressor liver kinase B1.
Forkhead box K2 modulates epirubicin and paclitaxel sensitivity through FOXO3a in breast cancer.
FOXO1 inhibits osteosarcoma oncogenesis via Wnt/β-catenin pathway suppression.
Stiff substrates increase YAP-signaling-mediated matrix metalloproteinase-7 expression.
Diacylglycerol kinase-ζ regulates mTORC1 and lipogenic metabolism in cancer cells through SREBP-1.
Urothelial cells undergo epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition after exposure to muscle invasive bladder cancer exosomes.
SPINK1 promotes colorectal cancer progression by downregulating Metallothioneins expression.
Combined transcriptome studies identify AFF3 as a mediator of the oncogenic effects of β-catenin in adrenocortical carcinoma.
Atlas of Cancer Signalling Network: a systems biology resource for integrative analysis of cancer data with Google Maps.
Metformin induces ER stress-dependent apoptosis through miR-708-5p/NNAT pathway in prostate cancer.
An aberrant nuclear localization of E-cadherin is a potent inhibitor of Wnt/β-catenin-elicited promotion of the cancer stem cell phenotype.
Human dCTP pyrophosphatase 1 promotes breast cancer cell growth and stemness through the modulation on 5-methyl-dCTP metabolism and global hypomethylation.
Kruppel-like factor 4 signals through microRNA-206 to promote tumor initiation and cell survival.
The phosphorylated prodrug FTY720 is a histone deacetylase inhibitor that reactivates ERα expression and enhances hormonal therapy for breast cancer.
Mutations of the functional ARH1 allele in tumors from ARH1 heterozygous mice and cells affect ARH1 catalytic activity, cell proliferation and tumorigenesis.
Regulation of lipid synthesis by the RNA helicase Mov10 controls Wnt5a production.
Compensatory angiogenesis and tumor refractoriness.
Real-time and simultaneous monitoring of the phosphorylation and enhanced interaction of p53 and XPC acidic domains with the TFIIH p62 subunit.
Nuclear accumulation of CDH1 mRNA in hepatocellular carcinoma cells.
Endothelial Caveolin-1 regulates the radiation response of epithelial prostate tumors.
The oncogenic role of the cochaperone Sgt1.
Prediction of recurrence-free survival using a protein expression-based risk classifier for head and neck cancer.
RUNX1/ETO blocks selectin-mediated adhesion via epigenetic silencing of PSGL-1.
Inhibiting phosphorylation of the oncogenic PAX3-FOXO1 reduces alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma phenotypes identifying novel therapy options.
Rap1 is indispensable for TRF2 function in etoposide-induced DNA damage response in gastric cancer cell line.
DACH1 inhibits SNAI1-mediated epithelial–mesenchymal transition and represses breast carcinoma metastasis.
MUTYH, an adenine DNA glycosylase, mediates p53 tumor suppression via PARP-dependent cell death.
Cellular memory of hypoxia elicits neuroblastoma metastasis and enables invasion by non-aggressive neighbouring cells.
Histone acetyltransferase inhibitors block neuroblastoma cell growth in vivo.
Circulating APRIL levels are correlated with advanced disease and prognosis in rectal cancer patients.
An internal ribosome entry site in the 5′ untranslated region of epidermal growth factor receptor allows hypoxic expression.
