Signaling pathways play important roles in the life processes of cell growth, cell apoptosis and organism development. At present the signal transduction networks are far from complete. As an effective complement to experimental methods, computational modeling is suited to rapidly reconstruct the signaling pathways at low cost. To our knowledge, the existing computational methods seldom simultaneously exploit more than three signaling pathways into one predictive model for the discovery of novel signaling components and the cross-talk modeling between signaling pathways. In this work, we propose a multi-label multi-instance transfer learning method to simultaneously reconstruct 27 human signaling pathways and model their cross-talks. Computational results show that the proposed method demonstrates satisfactory multi-label learning performance and rational proteome-wide predictions. Some predicted signaling components or pathway targeted proteins have been validated by recent literature. The predicted signaling components are further linked to pathways using the experimentally derived PPIs (protein-protein interactions) to reconstruct the human signaling pathways. Thus the map of the cross-talks via common signaling components and common signaling PPIs is conveniently inferred to provide valuable insights into the regulatory and cooperative relationships between signaling pathways. Lastly, gene ontology enrichment analysis is conducted to gain statistical knowledge about the reconstructed human signaling pathways. Multi-label learning framework has been demonstrated effective in this work to model the phenomena that a signaling protein belongs to more than one signaling pathway. As results, novel signaling components and pathways targeted proteins are predicted to simultaneously reconstruct multiple human signaling pathways and the static map of their cross-talks for further biomedical research. 
Precision medicine requires the tight integration of clinical and molecular data. To this end, it is mandatory to define proper technological solutions able to manage the overwhelming amount of high throughput genomic data needed to test associations between genomic signatures and human phenotypes. The i2b2 Center (Informatics for Integrating Biology and the Bedside) has developed a widely internationally adopted framework to use existing clinical data for discovery research that can help the definition of precision medicine interventions when coupled with genetic data. i2b2 can be significantly advanced by designing efficient management solutions of Next Generation Sequencing data. We developed BigQ, an extension of the i2b2 framework, which integrates patient clinical phenotypes with genomic variant profiles generated by Next Generation Sequencing. A visual programming i2b2 plugin allows retrieving variants belonging to the patients in a cohort by applying filters on genomic variant annotations. We report an evaluation of the query performance of our system on more than 11 million variants, showing that the implemented solution scales linearly in terms of query time and disk space with the number of variants. In this paper we describe a new i2b2 web service composed of an efficient and scalable document-based database that manages annotations of genomic variants and of a visual programming plug-in designed to dynamically perform queries on clinical and genetic data. The system therefore allows managing the fast growing volume of genomic variants and can be used to integrate heterogeneous genomic annotations. 
The detection of pathogens in complex sample backgrounds has been revolutionized by wide access to next-generation sequencing (NGS) platforms. However, analytical methods to support NGS platforms are not as uniformly available. Pathosphere (found at Pathosphere.org) is a cloud - based open - sourced community tool that allows for communication, collaboration and sharing of NGS analytical tools and data amongst scientists working in academia, industry and government. The architecture allows for users to upload data and run available bioinformatics pipelines without the need for onsite processing hardware or technical support. The pathogen detection capabilities hosted on Pathosphere were tested by analyzing pathogen-containing samples sequenced by NGS with both spiked human samples as well as human and zoonotic host backgrounds. Pathosphere analytical pipelines developed by Edgewood Chemical Biological Center (ECBC) identified spiked pathogens within a common sample analyzed by 454, Ion Torrent, and Illumina sequencing platforms. ECBC pipelines also correctly identified pathogens in human samples containing arenavirus in addition to animal samples containing flavivirus and coronavirus. These analytical methods were limited in the detection of sequences with limited homology to previous annotations within NCBI databases, such as parvovirus. Utilizing the pipeline-hosting adaptability of Pathosphere, the analytical suite was supplemented by analytical pipelines designed by the United States Army Medical Research Insititute of Infectious Diseases and Walter Reed Army Institute of Research (USAMRIID-WRAIR). These pipelines were implemented and detected parvovirus sequence in the sample that the ECBC iterative analysis previously failed to identify. By accurately detecting pathogens in a variety of samples, this work demonstrates the utility of Pathosphere and provides a platform for utilizing, modifying and creating pipelines for a variety of NGS technologies developed to detect pathogens in complex sample backgrounds. These results serve as an exhibition for the existing pipelines and web-based interface of Pathosphere as well as the plug-in adaptability that allows for integration of newer NGS analytical software as it becomes available. 
Phylogenetic trees are central to a wide range of biological studies. In many of these studies, tree nodes need to be associated with a variety of attributes. For example, in studies concerned with viral relationships, tree nodes are associated with epidemiological information, such as location, age and subtype. Gene trees used in comparative genomics are usually linked with taxonomic information, such as functional annotations and events. A wide variety of tree visualization and annotation tools have been developed in the past, however none of them are intended for an integrative and comparative analysis. Treelink is a platform-independent software for linking datasets and sequence files to phylogenetic trees. The application allows an automated integration of datasets to trees for operations such as classifying a tree based on a field or showing the distribution of selected data attributes in branches and leafs. Genomic and proteonomic sequences can also be linked to the tree and extracted from internal and external nodes. A novel clustering algorithm to simplify trees and display the most divergent clades was also developed, where validation can be achieved using the data integration and classification function. Integrated geographical information allows ancestral character reconstruction for phylogeographic plotting based on parsimony and likelihood algorithms. Conclusion: Our software can successfully integrate phylogenetic trees with different data sources, and perform operations to differentiate and visualize those differences within a tree. File support includes the most popular formats such as newick and csv. Exporting visualizations as images, cluster outputs and genomic sequences is supported. Treelink is available as a web and desktop application at  
Transcription factors (TFs) are proteins that bind to DNA and regulate gene expression. To understand details of gene regulation, characterizing TF binding sites in different cell types, diseases and among individuals is essential. However, sometimes TF binding can only be measured from biological samples that contain multiple cell or tissue types. Sample heterogeneity can have a considerable effect on TF binding site detection. While manual separation techniques can be used to isolate a cell type of interest from heterogeneous samples, such techniques are challenging and can change intra-cellular interactions, including protein-DNA binding. Computational deconvolution methods have emerged as an alternative strategy to study heterogeneous samples and numerous methods have been proposed to analyze gene expression. However, no computational method exists to deconvolve cell type specific TF binding from heterogeneous samples. We present a probabilistic method, MixChIP, to identify cell type specific TF binding sites from heterogeneous chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) data. Our method simultaneously estimates the binding strength in different cell types as well as the proportions of different cell types in each sample when only partial prior information about cell type composition is available. We demonstrate the utility of MixChIP by analyzing ChIP-seq data from two cell lines which we artificially mix to generate (simulated) heterogeneous samples and by analyzing ChIP-seq data from breast cancer patients measuring oestrogen receptor (ER) binding in primary breast cancer tissues. We show that MixChIP is more accurate in detecting TF binding sites from multiple heterogeneous ChIP-seq samples than the standard methods which do not account for sample heterogeneity. Our results show that MixChIP can estimate cell-type proportions and identify cell type specific TF binding sites from heterogeneous ChIP-seq samples. Thus, MixChIP can be an invaluable tool in analyzing heterogeneous ChIP-seq samples, such as those originating from cancer studies. R implementation is available at  
Microarray analysis represents a powerful way to test scientific hypotheses on the functionality of cells. The measurements consider the whole genome, and the large number of generated data requires sophisticated analysis. To date, no gold-standard for the analysis of microarray images has been established. Due to the lack of a standard approach there is a strong need to identify new processing algorithms. Methods: We propose a novel approach based on hyperbolic partial differential equations (PDEs) for unsupervised spot segmentation. Prior to segmentation, morphological operations were applied for the identification of co-localized groups of spots. A grid alignment was performed to determine the borderlines between rows and columns of spots. PDEs were applied to detect the inflection points within each column and row; vertical and horizontal luminance profiles were evolved respectively. The inflection points of the profiles determined borderlines that confined a spot within adapted rectangular areas. A subsequent k-means clustering determined the pixels of each individual spot and its local background. We evaluated the approach for a data set of microarray images taken from the Stanford Microarray Database (SMD). The data set is based on two studies on global gene expression profiles of Arabidopsis Thaliana. We computed values for spot intensity, regression ratio, and coefficient of determination. For spots with irregular contours and inner holes, we found intensity values that were significantly different from those determined by the GenePix Pro microarray analysis software. We determined the set of differentially expressed genes from our intensities and identified more activated genes than were predicted by the GenePix software. Our method represents a worthwhile alternative and complement to standard approaches used in industry and academy. We highlight the importance of our spot segmentation approach, which identified supplementary important genes, to better explains the molecular mechanisms that are activated in a defense responses to virus and pathogen infection.
GIW/InCoB2015 the joint 26th International Conference on Genome Informatics (GIW) and 14th International Conference on Bioinformatics (InCoB) held in Tokyo, September 9-11, 2015 was attended by over 200 delegates. Fifty-one out of 89 oral presentations were based on research articles accepted for publication in four BMC journal supplements and three other journals. Sixteen articles in this supplement and six articles in the BMC Systems Biology GIW/InCoB2015 Supplement are covered by this introduction. The topics range from genome informatics, protein structure informatics, image analysis to biological networks and biomarker discovery.
Finding the smallest sequence of operations to transform one genome into another is an important problem in comparative genomics. The breakpoint graph is a discrete structure that has proven to be effective in solving distance problems, and the number of cycles in a cycle decomposition of this graph is one of the remarkable parameters to help in the solution of related problems. For a fixed k, the number of linear unichromosomal genomes (signed or unsigned) with n elements such that the induced breakpoint graphs have k disjoint cycles, known as the Hultman number, has been already determined. In this work we extend these results to multichromosomal genomes, providing formulas to compute the number of multichromosal genomes having a fixed number of cycles and/or paths. We obtain an explicit formula for circular multichromosomal genomes and recurrences for general multichromosomal genomes, and discuss how these series can be used to calculate the distribution and expected value of the rearrangement distance between random genomes.
Dynamic programming algorithms provide exact solutions to many problems in computational biology, such as sequence alignment, RNA folding, hidden Markov models (HMMs), and scoring of phylogenetic trees. Structurally analogous algorithms compute optimal solutions, evaluate score distributions, and perform stochastic sampling. This is explained in the theory of Algebraic Dynamic Programming (ADP) by a strict separation of state space traversal (usually represented by a context free grammar), scoring (encoded as an algebra), and choice rule. A key ingredient in this theory is the use of yield parsers that operate on the ordered input data structure, usually strings or ordered trees. The computation of ensemble properties, such as a posteriori probabilities of HMMs or partition functions in RNA folding, requires the combination of two distinct, but intimately related algorithms, known as the inside and the outside recursion. Only the inside recursions are covered by the classical ADP theory. The ideas of ADP are generalized to a much wider scope of data structures by relaxing the concept of parsing. This allows us to formalize the conceptual complementarity of inside and outside variables in a natural way. We demonstrate that outside recursions are generically derivable from inside decomposition schemes. In addition to rephrasing the well-known algorithms for HMMs, pairwise sequence alignment, and RNA folding we show how the TSP and the shortest Hamiltonian path problem can be implemented efficiently in the extended ADP framework. As a showcase application we investigate the ancient evolution of HOX gene clusters in terms of shortest Hamiltonian paths. The generalized ADP framework presented here greatly facilitates the development and implementation of dynamic programming algorithms for a wide spectrum of applications.
Large-scale mutational events that occur when stretches of DNA sequence move throughout genomes are called genome rearrangements. In bacteria, inversions are one of the most frequently observed rearrangements. In some bacterial families, inversions are biased in favor of symmetry as shown by recent research. In addition, several results suggest that short segment inversions are more frequent in the evolution of microbial genomes. Despite the fact that symmetry and length of the reversed segments seem very important, they have not been considered together in any problem in the genome rearrangement field. Here, we define the problem of sorting genomes (or permutations) using inversions whose costs are assigned based on their lengths and asymmetries. We consider two formulations of the same problem depending on whether we know the orientation of the genes. Several procedures are presented and we assess these procedure performances on a large set of more than 4.4 × 109 permutations. The ideas presented in this paper provide insights to solve the problem and set the stage for a proper theoretical analysis.
Cytotoxicity assays have been used by researchers to screen for cytotoxicity in compound libraries. Researchers can either look for cytotoxic compounds or screen "hits" from initial high-throughput drug screens for unwanted cytotoxic effects before investing in their development as a pharmaceutical. These assays may be used as an alternative to animal experimentation and are becoming increasingly important in modern laboratories. However, the execution of these assays in large scale and different laboratories requires, among other things, the management of protocols, reagents, cell lines used as well as the data produced, which can be a challenge. The management of all this information is greatly improved by the utilization of computational tools to save time and guarantee quality. However, a tool that performs this task designed specifically for cytotoxicity assays is not yet available. In this work, we have used a workflow based LIMS -- the Flux system -- and the Together Workflow Editor as a framework to develop FluxCTTX, a tool for management of data from cytotoxicity assays performed at different laboratories. The main work is the development of a workflow, which represents all stages of the assay and has been developed and uploaded in Flux. This workflow models the activities of cytotoxicity assays performed as described in the OECD 129 Guidance Document. FluxCTTX presents a solution for the management of the data produced by cytotoxicity assays performed at Interlaboratory comparisons. Its adoption will contribute to guarantee the quality of activities in the process of cytotoxicity tests and enforce the use of Good Laboratory Practices (GLP). Furthermore, the workflow developed is complete and can be adapted to other contexts and different tests for management of other types of data.
Context: The reconstruction of evolutionary scenarios for whole genomes in terms of genome rearrangements is a fundamental problem in evolutionary and comparative genomics. The DeCo algorithm, recently introduced by Bérard et al., computes parsimonious evolutionary scenarios for gene adjacencies, from pairs of reconciled gene trees. However, as for many combinatorial optimization algorithms, there can exist many co-optimal, or slightly sub-optimal, evolutionary scenarios that deserve to be considered. Contribution: We extend the DeCo algorithm to sample evolutionary scenarios from the whole solution space under the Boltzmann distribution, and also to compute Boltzmann probabilities for specific ancestral adjacencies. We apply our algorithms to a dataset of mammalian gene trees and adjacencies, and observe a significant reduction of the number of syntenic conflicts observed in the resulting ancestral gene adjacencies.
There exists a large number of rare and complex diseases that are neglected due to the difficulty in diagnosis and treatment. Being rare, they normally do not justify the costs of developing an especialized Electronic Health Record (EHR) system to assist doctors and patients of these diseases. In this work we propose the use of Computer applications known as Laboratory Information Management Systems (LIMS) to address this issue. In this work we describe a fully customizable EHR system that uses a workflow based LIMS with an easy to adapt interface for data collection and retrieval. This system can easily be customized to manage different types of medical data. The customization for a new disease can be done in a few hours with the help of a specialist. Conclusion: We have used the proposed system to manage data from patients of three complex diseases: neuromyelitis optica, paracoccidioidomycosis and adrenoleukodistrofy. These diseases have very different symptoms, exams, diagnostics and treatments, but the FluxMED system is able to manage these data in a highly specialized manner without any modifications to its code.
Complex diseases are characterized as being polygenic and multifactorial, so this poses a challenge regarding the search for genes related to them. With the advent of high-throughput technologies for genome sequencing, gene expression measurements (transcriptome), and protein-protein interactions, complex diseases have been sistematically investigated. Particularly, Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) networks have been used to prioritize genes related to complex diseases according to its topological features. However, PPI networks are affected by ascertainment bias, in which more studied proteins tend to have more connections, degrading the results quality. Additionally, methods using only PPI networks can provide only static and non-specific results, since the topologies of these networks are not specific of a given disease. The goal of this work is to develop a methodology that integrates PPI networks with disease specific data sources, such as GWAS and gene expression, to find genes more specific of a given complex disease. After the integration of PPI networks and gene expression data, the resulting network is used to connect genes related to the disease through the shortest paths that have the greatest concordance between their gene expressions. Both case and control expression data are used separately and, at the end, the most altered genes between the two conditions are selected. To evaluate the method, schizophrenia was adopted as case study. Conclusion: Results show that the proposed method successfully retrieves differentially coexpressed genes in two conditions, while avoiding the bias from literature. Moreover we were able to achieve a greater concordance in the selection of important genes from different microarray studies of the same disease and to produce a more specific gene set related to the studied disease.
The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) is a retrovirus causing acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), which has become a serious problem across the world and has no cure reported to date. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) protease is an attractive target for antiviral treatment and a number of therapeutically useful inhibitors have been designed against it. The emergence of drug resistant mutants of HIV-1 poses a serious problem for conventional therapies that have been used so far. Until now, thirteen protease inhibitors (PIs), major mutation sites and many secondary mutations have been listed in the HIV Drug Resistance Database. In this study, we have studied the effect of the V77I mutation in HIV-PR along with the co-occurring mutations L33F and K20T through multi-nanosecond molecular dynamics simulations. V77I is known to cause Nelfinavir (NFV) resistance in the subtype B population of HIV-1 protease. We have for the first time reported the effect of this clinically relevant mutation on the binding of Nelfinavir and the conformational flexibility of the protease. Two HIV-PR mutants have been considered in this study - the Double Mutant Protease (DBM) V77I-L33F and Triple Mutant Protease (TPM) V77I-K20T-L33F. The molecular dynamics simulation studies were carried out and the RMSD trajectories of the unliganded wild type and mutated protease were found to be stable. The binding affinity of NFV with wild type HIV-PR was very high with a Glide XP docking score of -9.3 Kcal/mol. NFV showed decreased affinity towards DBM with a docking score of -8.0 Kcal/mol, whereas its affinity increased towards TPM (Glide XP score: -10.3). Prime/MM-GBSA binding free energy of the wild type, DBM and TPM HIV-PR docked structures were calculated as -38.9, -11.1 and -42.6 Kcal/mol respectively. The binding site cavity volumes of wild type, DBM and TPM protease were 1186.1, 1375.5 and 1042.5 Å3 respectively. Conclusion: In this study, we have studied the structural roles of the two HIV-PR mutations by conducting molecular dynamics simulation studies of the wild type and mutant HIV-1 PRs. The present study proposes that DBM protease showed greater flexibility and the flap separation was greater with respect to the wild type protease. The cavity size of the MD-stabilized DBM was also found to be increased, which may be responsible for the decreased interaction of Nelfinavir with the cavity residues, thus explaining the decreased binding affinity. On the other hand, the binding affinity of NFV for TPM was found to be enhanced, accounted for by the decrease in cavity size of the mutant which facilitated strong interactions with the flap residues. The flap separation of TPM was less than the wild type protease and the decreased cavity size may be responsible for its lower resistance, and hence, may be the reason for its lower clinical relevance.
The advent of rapid evolution on sequencing capacity of new genomes has evidenced the need for data analysis automation aiming at speeding up the genomic annotation process and reducing its cost. Given that one important step for functional genomic annotation is the promoter identification, several studies have been taken in order to propose computational approaches to predict promoters. Different classifiers and characteristics of the promoter sequences have been used to deal with this prediction problem. However, several works in literature have addressed the promoter prediction problem using datasets containing sequences of 250 nucleotides or more. As the sequence length defines the amount of dataset attributes, even considering a limited number of properties to characterize the sequences, datasets with a high number of attributes are generated for training classifiers. Once high-dimensional datasets can degrade the classifiers predictive performance or even require an infeasible processing time, predicting promoters by training classifiers from datasets with a reduced number of attributes, it is essential to obtain good predictive performance with low computational cost. To the best of our knowledge, there is no work in literature that verified in a systematic way the relation between the sequences length and the predictive performance of classifiers. Thus, in this work, we have evaluated the impact of sequence length variation and training dataset size (number of sequences) on the predictive performance of classifiers. We have built sixteen datasets composed of different sized sequences (ranging in length from 12 to 301 nucleotides) and evaluated them using the SVM, Random Forest and k-NN classifiers. The best predictive performances reached by SVM and Random Forest remained relatively stable for datasets composed of sequences varying in length from 301 to 41 nucleotides, while k-NN achieved its best performance for the dataset composed of 101 nucleotides. We have also analyzed, using sequences composed of only 41 nucleotides, the impact of increasing the number of sequences in a dataset on the predictive performance of the same three classifiers. Datasets containing 14,000, 80,000, 100,000 and 120,000 sequences were built and evaluated. All classifiers achieved better predictive performance for datasets containing 80,000 sequences or more. Conclusion: The experimental results show that several datasets composed of shorter sequences achieved better predictive performance when compared with datasets composed of longer sequences, and also consumed a significantly shorter processing time. Furthermore, increasing the number of sequences in a dataset proved to be beneficial to the predictive power of classifiers.
The humoral immune system response is based on the interaction between antibodies and antigens for the clearance of pathogens and foreign molecules. The interaction between these proteins occurs at specific positions known as antigenic determinants or B-cell epitopes. The experimental identification of epitopes is costly and time consuming. Therefore the use of in silico methods, to help discover new epitopes, is an appealing alternative due the importance of biomedical applications such as vaccine design, disease diagnostic, anti-venoms and immune-therapeutics. However, the performance of predictions is not optimal been around 70% of accuracy. Further research could increase our understanding of the biochemical and structural properties that characterize a B-cell epitope. We investigated the possibility of linear epitopes from the same protein family to share common properties. This hypothesis led us to analyze physico-chemical (PCP) and predicted secondary structure (PSS) features of a curated dataset of epitope sequences available in the literature belonging to two different groups of antigens (metalloproteinases and neurotoxins). We discovered statistically significant parameters with data mining techniques which allow us to distinguish neurotoxin from metalloproteinase and these two from random sequences. After a five cross fold validation we found that PCP based models obtained area under the curve values (AUC) and accuracy above 0.9 for regression, decision tree and support vector machine. We demonstrated that antigen's family can be inferred from properties within a single group of linear epitopes (metalloproteinases or neurotoxins). Also we discovered the characteristics that represent these two epitope groups including their similarities and differences with random peptides and their respective amino acid sequence. These findings open new perspectives to improve epitope prediction by considering the specific antigen's protein family. We expect that these findings will help to improve current computational mapping methods based on physico-chemical due it's potential application during epitope discovery.
?
Selected and multiple reaction monitoring involves monitoring a multiplexed assay of proteotypic peptides and associated transitions in mass spectrometry runs. To describe peptide and associated transitions as stable, quantifiable, and reproducible representatives of proteins of interest, experimental and analytical validation is required. However, inadequate and disparate analytical tools and validation methods predispose assay performance measures to errors and inconsistencies. Implemented as a freely available, open-source tool in the platform independent Java programing language, MRMPlus computes analytical measures as recommended recently by the Clinical Proteomics Tumor Analysis Consortium Assay Development Working Group for “Tier 2” assays – that is, non-clinical assays sufficient enough to measure changes due to both biological and experimental perturbations. Computed measures include; limit of detection, lower limit of quantification, linearity, carry-over, partial validation of specificity, and upper limit of quantification. MRMPlus streamlines assay development analytical workflow and therefore minimizes error predisposition. MRMPlus may also be used for performance estimation for targeted assays not described by the Assay Development Working Group. MRMPlus’ source codes and compiled binaries can be freely downloaded from  and  respectively. 
Inference of sequence homology is inherently an evolutionary question, dependent upon evolutionary divergence. However, the insertion and deletion penalties in the most widely used methods for inferring homology by sequence alignment, including BLAST and profile hidden Markov models (profile HMMs), are not based on any explicitly time-dependent evolutionary model. Using one fixed score system (BLOSUM62 with some gap open/extend costs, for example) corresponds to making an unrealistic assumption that all sequence relationships have diverged by the same time. Adoption of explicit time-dependent evolutionary models for scoring insertions and deletions in sequence alignments has been hindered by algorithmic complexity and technical difficulty. We identify and implement several probabilistic evolutionary models compatible with the affine-cost insertion/deletion model used in standard pairwise sequence alignment. Assuming an affine gap cost imposes important restrictions on the realism of the evolutionary models compatible with it, as single insertion events with geometrically distributed lengths do not result in geometrically distributed insert lengths at finite times. Nevertheless, we identify one evolutionary model compatible with symmetric pair HMMs that are the basis for Smith-Waterman pairwise alignment, and two evolutionary models compatible with standard profile-based alignment.We test different aspects of the performance of these “optimized branch length” models, including alignment accuracy and homology coverage (discrimination of residues in a homologous region from nonhomologous flanking residues). We test on benchmarks of both global homologies (full length sequence homologs) and local homologies (homologous subsequences embedded in nonhomologous sequence). Contrary to our expectations, we find that for global homologies a single long branch parameterization suffices both for distant and close homologous relationships. In contrast, we do see an advantage in using explicit evolutionary models for local homologies. Optimal branch parameterization reduces a known artifact called “homologous overextension”, in which local alignments erroneously extend through flanking nonhomologous residues. 
Copy number variation (CNV) analysis has become one of the most important research areas for understanding complex disease. With increasing resolution of array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) arrays, more and more raw copy number data are collected for multiple arrays. It is natural to realize the co-existence of both recurrent and individual-specific CNVs, together with the possible data contamination during the data generation process. Therefore, there is a great need for an efficient and robust statistical model for simultaneous recovery of both recurrent and individual-specific CNVs. Result: We develop a penalized weighted low-rank approximation method (WPLA) for robust recovery of recurrent CNVs. In particular, we formulate multiple aCGH arrays into a realization of a hidden low-rank matrix with some random noises and let an additional weight matrix account for those individual-specific effects. Thus, we do not restrict the random noise to be normally distributed, or even homogeneous. We show its performance through three real datasets and twelve synthetic datasets from different types of recurrent CNV regions associated with either normal random errors or heavily contaminated errors. Conclusion: Our numerical experiments have demonstrated that the WPLA can successfully recover the recurrent CNV patterns from raw data under different scenarios. Compared with two other recent methods, it performs the best regarding its ability to simultaneously detect both recurrent and individual-specific CNVs under normal random errors. More importantly, the WPLA is the only method which can effectively recover the recurrent CNVs region when the data is heavily contaminated. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is an aggressive epithelial tumor which shows very poor prognosis and high rate of recurrence, representing an urgent problem for public healthcare. MicroRNAs (miRNAs/miRs) are a class of small, non-coding RNAs that attract great attention because of their role in regulation of processes such as cellular growth, proliferation, apoptosis. Because of the thousands of potential interactions between a single miR and target mRNAs, bioinformatics prediction tools are very useful to facilitate the task for individuating and selecting putative target genes. In this study, we present a chemically-induced HCC mouse model to identify differential expression of miRNAs during the progression of the hepatic injury up to HCC onset. In addition, we describe an established bioinformatics approach to highlight putative target genes and protein interaction networks where they are involved. We describe four miRs (miR-125a-5p, miR-27a, miR-182, miR-193b) which showed to be differentially expressed in the chemically-induced HCC mouse model. The miRs were subjected to four of the most used predictions tools and 15 predicted target genes were identified. The expression of one (ANK3) among the 15 predicted targets was further validated by immunoblotting. Then, enrichment annotation analysis was performed revealing significant clusters, including some playing a role in ion transporter activity, regulation of receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway, protein import into nucleus, regulation of intracellular protein transport, regulation of cell adhesion, growth factor binding, and regulation of TGF-beta/SMAD signaling pathway. A network construction was created and links between the selected miRs, the predicted targets as well as the possible interactions among them and other proteins were built up. In this study, we combined miRNA expression analysis, obtained by an in vivo HCC mouse model, with a bioinformatics-based workflow. New genes, pathways and protein interactions, putatively involved in HCC initiation and progression, were identified and explored. 
Short and long range correlations in biological sequences are central in genomic studies of covariation. These correlations can be studied using mutual information because it measures the amount of information one random variable contains about the other. Here we present MIA (Mutual Information Analyzer) a user friendly graphic interface pipeline that calculates spectra of vertical entropy (VH), vertical mutual information (VMI) and horizontal mutual information (HMI), since currently there is no user friendly integrated platform that in a single package perform all these calculations. MIA also calculates Jensen-Shannon Divergence (JSD) between pair of different species spectra, herein called informational distances. Thus, the resulting distance matrices can be presented by distance histograms and informational dendrograms, giving support to discrimination of closely related species. In order to test MIA we analyzed sequences from Drosophila Adh locus, because the taxonomy and evolutionary patterns of different Drosophila species are well established and the gene Adh is extensively studied. The search retrieved 959 sequences of 291 species. From the total, 450 sequences of 17 species were selected. With this dataset MIA performed all tasks in less than three hours: gathering, storing and aligning fasta files; calculating VH, VMI and HMI spectra; and calculating JSD between pair of different species spectra. For each task MIA saved tables and graphics in the local disk, easily accessible for future analysis. Our tests revealed that the “informational model free” spectra may represent species signatures. Since JSD applied to Horizontal Mutual Information spectra resulted in statistically significant distances between species, we could calculate respective hierarchical clusters, herein called Informational Dendrograms (ID). When compared to phylogenetic trees all Informational Dendrograms presented similar taxonomy and species clusterization. 
The potential utility of the Burrows-Wheeler transform (BWT) of a large amount of short-read data ("reads") has not been fully studied. The BWT basically serves as a lossless dictionary of reads, unlike the heuristic and lossy reads-to-genome mapping results conventionally obtained in the first step of sequence analysis. Thus, it is naturally expected to lead to development of sensitive methods for analysis of short-read data. Recently, one of the most active areas of research in sequence analysis is sensitive detection of rare genomic rearrangements from whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data of heterogeneous cancer samples. The application the BWT of reads to the analysis of genomic rearrangements is addressed in this study. A new method for sensitive detection of genomic rearrangements by using the BWT of reads in the following three steps is proposed: first, breakpoint regions, which contain breakpoints and are joined together by rearrangement, are predicted from the distribution of so-called discordant pairs by using a kind of the conjugate gradient method; second, reads partially matching the breakpoint regions are collected from the BWT of reads; and third, breakpoints are detected as branching points among the collected reads, and their precise positions are determined. The method was experimentally implemented, and its performance (i.e., sensitivity and specificity) was evaluated by using simulated data with known artificial rearrangements. It was applied to publicly available real biological WGS data of cancer patients, and the detection results were compared with published results. Serving as a lossless dictionary of reads, the BWT of short reads enables sensitive analysis of genomic rearrangements in heterogeneous cancer-genome samples when used in conjunction with breakpoint-region predictions based on a conjugate gradient method.
Searching for similar compounds in a database is the most important process for in-silico drug screening. Since a query compound is an important starting point for the new drug, a query holder, who is afraid of the query being monitored by the database server, usually downloads all the records in the database and uses them in a closed network. However, a serious dilemma arises when the database holder also wants to output no information except for the search results, and such a dilemma prevents the use of many important data resources. In order to overcome this dilemma, we developed a novel cryptographic protocol that enables database searching while keeping both the query holder's privacy and database holder's privacy. Generally, the application of cryptographic techniques to practical problems is difficult because versatile techniques are computationally expensive while computationally inexpensive techniques can perform only trivial computation tasks. In this study, our protocol is successfully built only from an additive-homomorphic cryptosystem, which allows only addition performed on encrypted values but is computationally efficient compared with versatile techniques such as general purpose multi-party computation. In an experiment searching ChEMBL, which consists of more than 1,200,000 compounds, the proposed method was 36,900 times faster in CPU time and 12,000 times as efficient in communication size compared with general purpose multi-party computation. Conclusion: We proposed a novel privacy-preserving protocol for searching chemical compound databases. The proposed method, easily scaling for large-scale databases, may help to accelerate drug discovery research by making full use of unused but valuable data that includes sensitive information.
The incomplete ground truth of training data of B-cell epitopes is a demanding issue in computational epitope prediction. The challenge is that only a small fraction of the surface residues of an antigen are confirmed as antigenic residues (positive training data); the remaining residues are unlabeled. As some of these uncertain residues can possibly be grouped to form novel but currently unknown epitopes, it is misguided to unanimously classify all the unlabeled residues as negative training data following the traditional supervised learning scheme. We propose a positive-unlabeled learning algorithm to address this problem. The key idea is to distinguish between epitope-likely residues and reliable negative residues in unlabeled data. The method has two steps: (1) identify reliable negative residues using a weighted SVM with a high recall; and (2) construct a classification model on the positive residues and the reliable negative residues. Complex-based 10-fold cross-validation was conducted to show that this method outperforms those commonly used predictors DiscoTope 2.0, ElliPro and SEPPA 2.0 in every aspect. We conducted four case studies, in which the approach was tested on antigens of West Nile virus, dihydrofolate reductase, beta-lactamase, and two Ebola antigens whose epitopes are currently unknown. All the results were assessed on a newly-established data set of antigen structures not bound by antibodies, instead of on antibody-bound antigen structures. These bound structures may contain unfair binding information such as bound-state B-factors and protrusion index which could exaggerate the epitope prediction performance. Source codes are available on request.
In recent years, high throughput and non-invasive Raman spectrometry technique has matured as an effective approach to identification of individual cells by species, even in complex, mixed populations. Raman profiling is an appealing optical microscopic method to achieve this. To fully utilize Raman proling for single-cell analysis, an extensive understanding of Raman spectra is necessary to answer questions such as which filtering methodologies are effective for pre-processing of Raman spectra, what strains can be distinguished by Raman spectra, and what features serve best as Raman-based biomarkers for single-cells, etc. In this work, we have proposed an approach called rDisc to discretize the original Raman spectrum into only a few (usually less than 20) representative peaks (Raman shifts). The approach has advantages in removing noises, and condensing the original spectrum. In particular, effective signal processing procedures were designed to eliminate noise, utilising wavelet transform denoising, baseline correction, and signal normalization. In the discretizing process, representative peaks were selected to signicantly decrease the Raman data size. More importantly, the selected peaks are chosen as suitable to serve as key biological markers to differentiate species and other cellular features. Additionally, the classication performance of discretized spectra was found to be comparable to full spectrum having more than 1000 Raman shifts. Overall, the discretized spectrum needs about 5storage space of a full spectrum and the processing speed is considerably faster. This makes rDisc clearly superior to other methods for single-cell classication.
Alzheimer's disease is a multifactorial disorder that may be diagnosed earlier using a combination of tests rather than any single test. Search algorithms and optimization techniques in combination with model evaluation techniques have been used previously to perform the selection of suitable feature sets. Previously we successfully applied GA with LR to neuropsychological data contained within the The Australian Imaging, Biomarkers and Lifestyle (AIBL) study of aging, to select cognitive tests for prediction of progression of AD. This research addresses an Adaptive Genetic Algorithm (AGA) in combination with LR for identifying the best biomarker combination for prediction of the progression to AD. The model has been explored in terms of parameter optimization to predict conversion from healthy stage to AD with high accuracy. Several feature sets were selected - the resulting prediction moddels showed higher area under the ROC values (0.83-0.89). The results has shown consistency with some of the medical research reported in literature. Conclusion: The AGA has proven useful in selecting the best combination of biomarkers for prediction of AD progression. The algorithm presented here is generic and can be extended to other data sets generated in projects that seek to identify combination of biomarkers or other features that are predictive of disease onset or progression.
Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies has brought an unprecedented amount of genomic data for analysis. Unlike array-based profiling technologies, NGS can reveal the expression profile across a transcript at the base level. Such a base-level read coverage provides further insights for alternative mRNA splicing, single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), novel transcript discovery, etc. However, to our best knowledge, none of existing NGS viewers can timely visualize genome-wide base-level read coverages in an interactive environment. This study proposes an efficient visualization pipeline and implements a lightweight read coverage viewer, Light-RCV, with the proposed pipeline. Light-RCV consists of four featured designs on the path from raw NGS data to the final visualized read coverage: i) read coverage construction algorithm, ii) multi-resolution profiles, iii) two-stage architecture and iv) storage format. With these designs, Light-RCV achieves a < 0.5s response time on any scale of genomic ranges, including whole chromosomes. Finally, a case study was performed to demonstrate the importance of visualizing base-level read coverage and the value of Light-RCV. Compared with multi-functional genome viewers such as Artemis, Savant, Tablet and Integrative Genomics Viewer (IGV), Light-RCV is designed only for visualization. Therefore, it does not provide advanced analyses. However, its backend technology provides an efficient kernel of base-level visualization that can be easily embedded to other viewers. This viewer is the first to provide timely visualization of genome-wide read coverage at the base level in an interactive environment. The software is available for free at 
Principal component analysis is used to summarize matrix data, such as found in transcriptome, proteome or metabolome and medical examinations, into fewer dimensions by fitting the matrix to orthogonal axes. Although this methodology is frequently used in multivariate analyses, it has disadvantages when applied to experimental data. First, the identified principal components have poor generality; since the size and directions of the components are dependent on the particular data set, the components are valid only within the data set. Second, the method is sensitive to experimental noise and bias between sample groups. It cannot reflect the experimental design that is planned to manage the noise and bias; rather, it estimates the same weight and independence to all the samples in the matrix. Third, the resulting components are often difficult to interpret. To address these issues, several options were introduced to the methodology. First, the principal axes were identified using training data sets and shared across experiments. These training data reflect the design of experiments, and their preparation allows noise to be reduced and group bias to be removed. Second, the center of the rotation was determined in accordance with the experimental design. Third, the resulting components were scaled to unify their size unit. The effects of these options were observed in microarray experiments, and showed an improvement in the separation of groups and robustness to noise. The range of scaled scores was unaffected by the number of items. Additionally, unknown samples were appropriately classified using pre-arranged axes. Furthermore, these axes well reflected the characteristics of groups in the experiments. As was observed, the scaling of the components and sharing of axes enabled comparisons of the components beyond experiments. The use of training data reduced the effects of noise and bias in the data, facilitating the physical interpretation of the principal axes. Together, these introduced options result in improved generality and objectivity of the analytical results. The methodology has thus become more like a set of multiple regression analyses that find independent models that specify each of the axes.
Copepods are planktonic organisms that play a major role in the marine food chain. Studying the community structure and abundance of copepods in relation to the environment is essential to evaluate their contribution to mangrove trophodynamics and coastal fisheries. The routine identification of copepods can be very technical, requiring taxonomic expertise, experience and much effort which can be very time-consuming. Hence, there is an urgent need to introduce novel methods and approaches to automate identification and classification of copepod specimens. This study aims to apply digital image processing and machine learning methods to build an automated identification and classification technique. We developed an automated technique to extract morphological features of copepods' specimen from captured images using digital image processing techniques. An Artificial Neural Network (ANN) was used to classify the copepod specimens from species Acartia spinicauda, Bestiolina similis, Oithona aruensis, Oithona dissimilis, Oithona simplex, Parvocalanus crassirostris, Tortanus barbatus and Tortanus forcipatus based on the extracted features. 60% of the dataset was used for a two-layer feed-forward network training and the remaining 40% was used as testing dataset for system evaluation. Our approach demonstrated an overall classification accuracy of 93.13% (100% for A. spinicauda, B. similis and O. aruensis, 95% for T. barbatus, 90% for O. dissimilis and P. crassirostris, 85% for O. similis and T. forcipatus). The methods presented in this study enable fast classification of copepods to the species level. Future studies should include more classes in the model, improving the selection of features, and reducing the time to capture the copepod images.
Estimating the number of different species (richness) in a mixed microbial population has been a main focus in metagenomic research. Existing methods of species richness estimation ride on the assumption that the reads in each assembled contig correspond to only one of the microbial genomes in the population. This assumption and the underlying probabilistic formulations of existing methods are not useful for quasispecies populations where the strains are highly genetically related.The lack of knowledge on the number of different strains in a quasispecies population is observed to hinder the precision of existing Viral Quasispecies Spectrum Reconstruction (QSR) methods due to the uncontrolled reconstruction of a large number of in silico false positives. In this work, we formulated a novel probabilistic method for strain richness estimation specifically targeting viral quasispecies. By using this approach we improved our recently proposed spectrum reconstruction pipeline ViQuaS to achieve higher levels of precision in reconstructed quasispecies spectra without compromising the recall rates. We also discuss how one other existing popular QSR method named ShoRAH can be improved using this new approach. On benchmark data sets, our estimation method provided accurate richness estimates (< 0.2 median estimation error) and improved the precision of ViQuaS by 2%-13% and F-score by 1%-9% without compromising the recall rates. We also demonstrate that our estimation method can be used to improve the precision and F-score of ShoRAH by 0%-7% and 0%-5% respectively. The proposed probabilistic estimation method can be used to estimate the richness of viral populations with a quasispecies behavior and to improve the accuracy of the quasispecies spectra reconstructed by the existing methods ViQuaS and ShoRAH in the presence of a moderate level of technical sequencing errors. Availability: 
Neddylation is a reversible post-translational modification that plays a vital role in maintaining cellular machinery. It is shown to affect localization, binding partners and structure of target proteins. Disruption of protein neddylation was observed in various diseases such as Alzheimer's and cancer. Therefore, understanding the neddylation mechanism and determining neddylation targets possibly bears a huge importance in further understanding the cellular processes. This study is the first attempt to predict neddylated sites from protein sequences by using several sequence and sequence-based structural features. We have developed a neddylation site prediction method using a support vector machine based on various sequence properties, position-specific scoring matrices, and disorder. Using 21 amino acid long lysine-centred windows, our model was able to predict neddylation sites successfully, with an average 5-fold stratified cross validation performance of 0.91, 0.91, 0.75, 0.44, 0.95 for accuracy, specificity, sensitivity, Matthew's correlation coefficient and area under curve, respectively. Independent test set results validated the robustness of reported new method. Additionally, we observed that neddylation sites are commonly flexible and there is a significant positively charged amino acid presence in neddylation sites. In this study, a neddylation site prediction method was developed for the first time in literature. Common characteristics of neddylation sites and their discriminative properties were explored for further in silico studies on neddylation. Lastly, up-to-date neddylation dataset was provided for researchers working on post-translational modifications in the accompanying supplementary material of this article.
Computational identification of cooperative transcription factor (TF) pairs helps understand the combinatorial regulation of gene expression in eukaryotic cells. Many advanced algorithms have been proposed to predict cooperative TF pairs in yeast. However, it is still difficult to conduct a comprehensive and objective performance comparison of different algorithms because of lacking sufficient performance indices and adequate overall performance scores. To solve this problem, in our previous study (published in BMC Systems Biology 2014), we adopted/proposed eight performance indices and designed two overall performance scores to compare the performance of 14 existing algorithms for predicting cooperative TF pairs in yeast. Most importantly, our performance comparison framework can be applied to comprehensively and objectively evaluate the performance of a newly developed algorithm. However, to use our framework, researchers have to put a lot of effort to construct it first. To save researchers time and effort, here we develop a web tool to implement our performance comparison framework, featuring fast data processing, a comprehensive performance comparison and an easy-to-use web interface. The developed tool is called PCTFPeval (Predicted Cooperative TF Pair evaluator), written in PHP and Python programming languages. The friendly web interface allows users to input a list of predicted cooperative TF pairs from their algorithm and select (i) the compared algorithms among the 15 existing algorithms, (ii) the performance indices among the eight existing indices, and (iii) the overall performance scores from two possible choices. The comprehensive performance comparison results are then generated in tens of seconds and shown as both bar charts and tables. The original comparison results of each compared algorithm and each selected performance index can be downloaded as text files for further analyses. Allowing users to select eight existing performance indices and 15 existing algorithms for comparison, our web tool benefits researchers who are eager to comprehensively and objectively evaluate the performance of their newly developed algorithm. Thus, our tool greatly expedites the progress in the research of computational identification of cooperative TF pairs.
Transgenerational epigenetics (TGE) are currently considered important in disease, but the mechanisms involved are not yet fully understood. TGE abnormalities expected to cause disease are likely to be initiated during development and to be mediated by aberrant gene expression associated with aberrant promoter methylation that is heritable between generations. However, because methylation is removed and then re-established during development, it is not easy to identify promoter methylation abnormalities by comparing normal lineages with those expected to exhibit TGE abnormalities. Methods: This study applied the recently proposed principal component analysis (PCA)-based unsupervised feature extraction to previously reported and publically available gene expression/promoter methylation profiles of rat primordial germ cells, between E13 and E16 of the F3 generation vinclozolin lineage that are expected to exhibit TGE abnormalities, to identify multiple genes that exhibited aberrant gene expression/promoter methylation during development. The biological feasibility of the identified genes were tested via enrichment analyses of various biological concepts including pathway analysis, gene ontology terms and protein-protein interactions. All validations suggested superiority of the proposed method over three conventional and popular supervised methods that employed t test, limma and significance analysis of microarrays, respectively. The identified genes were globally related to tumors, the prostate, kidney, testis and the immune system and were previously reported to be related to various diseases caused by TGE. Among the genes reported by PCA-based unsupervised feature extraction, we propose that chemokine signaling pathways and leucine rich repeat proteins are key factors that initiate transgenerational epigenetic-mediated diseases, because multiple genes included in these two categories were identified in this study.
Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) are involved in various biological processes, and underlying mechanism of the interactions plays a crucial role in therapeutics and protein engineering. Most machine learning approaches have been developed for predicting the binding affinity of protein-protein complexes based on structure and functional information. This work aims to predict the binding affinity of heterodimeric protein complexes from sequences only. This work proposes a support vector machine (SVM) based binding affinity classifier, called SVM-BAC, to classify heterodimeric protein complexes based on the prediction of their binding affinity. SVM-BAC identified 14 of 580 sequence descriptors (physicochemical, energetic and conformational properties of the 20 amino acids) to classify 216 heterodimeric protein complexes into low and high binding affinity. SVM-BAC yielded the training accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, AUC and test accuracy of 85.80%, 0.89, 0.83, 0.86 and 83.33%, respectively, better than existing machine learning algorithms. The 14 features and support vector regression were further used to estimate the binding affinities (Pkd) of 200 heterodimeric protein complexes. Prediction performance of a Jackknife test was the correlation coefficient of 0.34 and mean absolute error of 1.4. We further analyze three informative physicochemical properties according to their contribution to prediction performance. Results reveal that the following properties are effective in predicting the binding affinity of heterodimeric protein complexes: apparent partition energy based on buried molar fractions, relations between chemical structure and biological activity in principal component analysis IV, and normalized frequency of beta turn. The proposed sequence-based prediction method SVM-BAC uses an optimal feature selection method to identify 14 informative features to classify and predict binding affinity of heterodimeric protein complexes. The characterization analysis revealed that the average numbers of beta turns and hydrogen bonds at protein-protein interfaces in high binding affinity complexes are more than those in low binding affinity complexes.
Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology has transformed metagenomics because the high-throughput data allow an in-depth exploration of a complex microbial community. However, accurate species identification with NGS data is challenging because NGS sequences are relatively short. Assembling 16S rDNA segments into longer sequences has been proposed for improving species identification. Current approaches, however, either suffer from amplification bias due to one single primer or insufficient 16S rDNA reads in whole genome sequencing data. Multiple primers were used to amplify different 16S rDNA segments for 454 sequencing, followed by 454 read classification and assembly. This permitted targeted sequencing while reducing primer bias. For test samples containing four known bacteria, accurate and near full-length 16S rDNAs of three known bacteria were obtained. For real soil and sediment samples containing dioxins in various concentrations, 16S rDNA sequences were lengthened by 50% for about half of the non-rare microbes, and 16S rDNAs of several microbes reached more than 1000 bp. In addition, reduced primer bias using multiple primers was illustrated. A new experimental and computational pipeline for obtaining long 16S rDNA sequences was proposed. The capability of the pipeline was validated on test samples and illustrated on real samples. For dioxin-containing samples, the pipeline revealed several microbes suitable for future studies of dioxin chemistry.
Protein-protein interaction (PPI) is essential for molecular functions in biological cells. Investigation on protein interfaces of known complexes is an important step towards deciphering the driving forces of PPIs. Each PPI complex is specific, sensitive and selective to binding. Therefore, we have estimated the relative difference in percentage of polar residues between surface and the interface for each complex in a non-redundant heterodimer dataset of 278 complexes to understand the predominant forces driving binding. Our analysis showed ~60% of protein complexes with surface polarity greater than interface polarity (designated as class A). However, a considerable number of complexes (~40%) have interface polarity greater than surface polarity, (designated as class B), with a significantly different p-value of 1.66E-45 from class A. Comprehensive analyses of protein complexes show that interface features such as interface area, interface polarity abundance, solvation free energy gain upon interface formation, binding energy and the percentage of interface charged residue abundance distinguish among class A and class B complexes, while electrostatic visualization maps also help differentiate interface classes among complexes. Class A complexes are classical with abundant non-polar interactions at the interface; however class B complexes have abundant polar interactions at the interface, similar to protein surface characteristics. Five physicochemical interface features analyzed from the protein heterodimer dataset are discriminatory among the interface residue-level classes. These novel observations find application in developing residue-level models for protein-protein binding prediction, protein-protein docking studies and interface inhibitor design as drugs.
Protein O-GlcNAcylation, involving the β-attachment of single N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) to the hydroxyl group of serine or threonine residues, is an O-linked glycosylation catalyzed by O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT). Molecular level investigation of the basis for OGT's substrate specificity should aid understanding how O-GlcNAc contributes to diverse cellular processes. Due to an increasing number of O-GlcNAcylated peptides with site-specific information identified by mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics, we were motivated to characterize substrate site motifs of O-GlcNAc transferases. In this investigation, a non-redundant dataset of 410 experimentally verified O-GlcNAcylation sites were manually extracted from dbOGAP, OGlycBase and UniProtKB. After detection of conserved motifs by using maximal dependence decomposition, profile hidden Markov model (profile HMM) was adopted to learn a first-layered model for each identified OGT substrate motif. Support Vector Machine (SVM) was then used to generate a second-layered model learned from the output values of profile HMMs in first layer. The two-layered predictive model was evaluated using a five-fold cross validation which yielded a sensitivity of 85.4%, a specificity of 84.1%, and an accuracy of 84.7%. Additionally, an independent testing set from PhosphoSitePlus, which was really non-homologous to the training data of predictive model, was used to demonstrate that the proposed method could provide a promising accuracy (84.05%) and outperform other O-GlcNAcylation site prediction tools. A case study indicated that the proposed method could be a feasible means of conducting preliminary analyses of protein O-GlcNAcylation and has been implemented as a web-based system, OGTSite, which is now freely available at 
The loss of duplicate genes - fractionation - after whole genome doubling (WGD) is the subject to a debate as to whether it proceeds gene by gene or through deletion of multi-gene chromosomal segments. WGD produces two copies of every chromosome, namely two identical copies of a sequence of genes. We assume deletion events excise a geometrically distributed number of consecutive genes with mean µ ≥ 1, and these events can combine to produce single-copy runs of length l. If µ = 1, the process is gene-by-gene. If µ > 1, the process at least occasionally excises more than one gene at a time. In the latter case if deletions overlap, the later one simply extends the existing run of single-copy genes. We explore aspects of the predicted distribution of the lengths of single-copy regions analytically, but resort to simulations to show how observing run lengths l allows us to discriminate between the two hypotheses. Deletion run length distributions can discriminate between gene-by-gene fractionation and deletion of segments of geometrically distributed length, even if µ is only slightly larger than 1, as long as the genome is large enough and fractionation has not proceeded too far towards completion.
Although it is frequently observed that aligning short reads to genomes becomes harder if they contain complex repeat patterns, there has not been much effort to quantify the relationship between complexity of genomes and difficulty of short-read alignment. Existing measures of sequence complexity seem unsuitable for the understanding and quantification of this relationship. We investigated several measures of complexity and found that length-sensitive measures of complexity had the highest correlation to accuracy of alignment. In particular, the rate of distinct substrings of length k, where k is similar to the read length, correlated very highly to alignment performance in terms of precision and recall. We showed how to compute this measure efficiently in linear time, making it useful in practice to estimate quickly the difficulty of alignment for new genomes without having to align reads to them first. We showed how the length-sensitive measures could provide additional information for choosing aligners that would align consistently accurately on new genomes. We formally established a connection between genome complexity and the accuracy of short-read aligners. The relationship between genome complexity and alignment accuracy provides additional useful information for selecting suitable aligners for new genomes. Further, this work suggests that the complexity of genomes sometimes should be thought of in terms of specific computational problems, such as the alignment of short reads to genomes.
The digitization of health-related information through electronic health records (EHR) and electronic healthcare reimbursement claims and the continued growth of self-reported health information through social media provides both tremendous opportunities and challenges in developing effective biosurveillance tools. With novel emerging infectious diseases being reported across different parts of the world, there is a need to build systems that can track, monitor and report such events in a timely manner. Further, it is also important to identify susceptible geographic regions and populations where emerging diseases may have a significant impact. Methods: In this paper, we present an overview of Oak Ridge Biosurveillance Toolkit (ORBiT), which we have developed specifically to address data analytic challenges in the realm of public health surveillance. In particular, ORBiT provides an extensible environment to pull together diverse, large-scale datasets and analyze them to identify spatial and temporal patterns for various biosurveillance-related tasks. We demonstrate the utility of ORBiT in automatically extracting a small number of spatial and temporal patterns during the 2009-2010 pandemic H1N1 flu season using claims data. These patterns provide quantitative insights into the dynamics of how the pandemic flu spread across different parts of the country. We discovered that the claims data exhibits multi-scale patterns from which we could identify a small number of states in the United States (US) that act as "bridge regions" contributing to one or more specific influenza spread patterns. Similar to previous studies, the patterns show that the south-eastern regions of the US were widely affected by the H1N1 flu pandemic. Several of these south-eastern states act as bridge regions, which connect the north-east and central US in terms of flu occurrences. These quantitative insights show how the claims data combined with novel analytical techniques can provide important information to decision makers when an epidemic spreads throughout the country. Taken together ORBiT provides a scalable and extensible platform for public health surveillance.
Studying biological networks is of extreme importance in understanding cellular functions. These networks model interactions between molecules in each cell. A large volume of research has been done to uncover different characteristics of biological networks, such as large-scale organization, node centrality and network robustness. Nevertheless, the vast majority of research done in this area assume that biological networks have deterministic topologies. Biological interactions are however probabilistic events that may or may not appear at different cells or even in the same cell at different times. In this paper, we present novel methods for characterizing probabilistic signaling networks. Our methods do this by computing the probability that a signal propagates successfully from receptor to reporter genes through interactions in the network. We characterize such networks with respect to (i) centrality of individual nodes, (ii) stability of the entire network, and (iii) important functions served by the network. We use these methods to characterize major H. sapiens signaling networks including Wnt, ErbB and MAPK.
Probabilistic models have gained widespread acceptance in the systems biology community as a useful way to represent complex biological systems. Such models are developed using existing knowledge of the structure and dynamics of the system, experimental observations, and inferences drawn from statistical analysis of empirical data. A key bottleneck in building such models is that some system variables cannot be measured experimentally. These variables are incorporated into the model as numerical parameters. Determining values of these parameters that justify existing experiments and provide reliable predictions when model simulations are performed is a key research problem.Domain experts usually estimate the values of these parameters by fitting the model to experimental data. Model fitting is usually expressed as an optimization problem that requires minimizing a cost-function which measures some notion of distance between the model and the data. This optimization problem is often solved by combining local and global search methods that tend to perform well for the specific application domain. When some prior information about parameters is available, methods such as Bayesian inference are commonly used for parameter learning. Choosing the appropriate parameter search technique requires detailed domain knowledge and insight into the underlying system. Using an agent-based model of the dynamics of acute inflammation, we demonstrate a novel parameter estimation algorithm by discovering the amount and schedule of doses of bacterial lipopolysaccharide that guarantee a set of observed clinical outcomes with high probability. We synthesized values of twenty-eight unknown parameters such that the parameterized model instantiated with these parameter values satisfies four specifications describing the dynamic behavior of the model. We have developed a new algorithmic technique for discovering parameters in complex stochastic models of biological systems given behavioral specifications written in a formal mathematical logic. Our algorithm uses Bayesian model checking, sequential hypothesis testing, and stochastic optimization to automatically synthesize parameters of probabilistic biological models.
Drug resistance is one of the most important causes for failure of anti-AIDS treatment. During therapy, multiple mutations accumulate in the HIV genome, eventually rendering the drugs ineffective in blocking replication of the mutant virus. The huge number of possible mutants precludes experimental analysis to explore the molecular mechanisms of resistance and develop improved antiviral drugs. In order to solve this problem, we have developed a new algorithm to reveal the most representative mutants from the whole drug resistant mutant database based on our newly proposed unified protein sequence and 3D structure encoding method. Mean shift clustering and multiple regression analysis were applied on genotype-resistance data for mutants of HIV protease and reverse transcriptase. This approach successfully chooses less than 100 mutants with the highest resistance to each drug out of about 10K in the whole database. When considering high level resistance to multiple drugs, the numbers reduce to one or two representative mutants. Conclusion: This approach for predicting the most representative mutants for each drug has major importance for experimental verification since the results provide a small number of representative sequences, which will be amenable for in vitro testing and characterization of the expressed mutant proteins.
In highly parallel next-generation sequencing (NGS) techniques millions to billions of short reads are produced from a genomic sequence in a single run. Due to the limitation of the NGS technologies, there could be errors in the reads. The error rate of the reads can be reduced with trimming and by correcting the erroneous bases of the reads. It helps to achieve high quality data and the computational complexity of many biological applications will be greatly reduced if the reads are first corrected. We have developed a novel error correction algorithm called EC and compared it with four other state-of-the-art algorithms using both real and simulated sequencing reads. We have done extensive and rigorous experiments that reveal that EC is indeed an effective, scalable, and efficient error correction tool. Real reads that we have employed in our performance evaluation are Illumina-generated short reads of various lengths. Six experimental datasets we have utilized are taken from sequence and read archive (SRA) at NCBI. The simulated reads are obtained by picking substrings from random positions of reference genomes. To introduce errors, some of the bases of the simulated reads are changed to other bases with some probabilities. Error correction is a vital problem in biology especially for NGS data. In this paper we present a novel algorithm, called Error Corrector (EC), for correcting substitution errors in biological sequencing reads. We plan to investigate the possibility of employing the techniques introduced in this research paper to handle insertion and deletion errors also. Software availability: The implementation is freely available for non-commercial purposes. It can be downloaded from: ~rajasek/EC.zip.
Motivation: The identification of new therapeutic uses of existing drugs, or drug repositioning, offers the possibility of faster drug development, reduced risk, lesser cost and shorter paths to approval. The advent of high throughput microarray technology has enabled comprehensive monitoring of transcriptional response associated with various disease states and drug treatments. This data can be used to characterize disease and drug effects and thereby give a measure of the association between a given drug and a disease. Several computational methods have been proposed in the literature that make use of publicly available transcriptional data to reposition drugs against diseases. Method: In this work, we carry out a data mining process using publicly available gene expression data sets associated with a few diseases and drugs, to identify the existing drugs that can be used to treat genes causing lung cancer and breast cancer. Three strong candidates for repurposing have been identified- Letrozole and GDC-0941 against lung cancer, and Ribavirin against breast cancer. Letrozole and GDC-0941 are drugs currently used in breast cancer treatment and Ribavirin is used in the treatment of Hepatitis C.
Continued advances in next generation short-read sequencing technologies are increasing throughput and read lengths, while driving down error rates. Taking advantage of the high coverage sampling used in many applications, several error correction algorithms have been developed to improve data quality further. However, correcting errors in high coverage sequence data requires significant computing resources. Methods: We propose a different approach to handle erroneous sequence data. Presently, error rates of high-throughput platforms such as the Illumina HiSeq are within 1%. Moreover, the errors are not uniformly distributed in all reads, and a large percentage of reads are indeed error-free. Ability to predict such perfect reads can significantly impact the run-time complexity of applications. We present a simple and fast k-spectrum analysis based method to identify error-free reads. The filtration process to identify and weed out erroneous reads can be customized at several levels of stringency depending upon the downstream application need. Our experiments show that if around 80% of the reads in a dataset are perfect, then our method retains almost 99.9% of them with more than 90% precision rate. Though filtering out reads identified as erroneous by our method reduces the average coverage by about 7%, we found the remaining reads provide as uniform a coverage as the original dataset. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on an example downstream application: we show that an error correction algorithm, Reptile, which rely on collectively analyzing the reads in a dataset to identify and correct erroneous bases, instead use reads predicted to be perfect by our method to correct the other reads, the overall accuracy improves further by up to 10%. Thanks to the continuous technological improvements, the coverage and accuracy of reads from dominant sequencing platforms have now reached an extent where we can envision just filtering out reads with errors, thus making error correction less important. Our algorithm is a first attempt to propose and demonstrate this new paradigm. Moreover, our demonstration is applicable to any error correction algorithm as a downstream application, this in turn gives a new class of error correcting algorithms as a by product.
Next-generation RNA sequencing technologies have been widely applied in transcriptome profiling. This facilitates further studies of gene structure and expression on the genome wide scale. It is an important step to align reads to the reference genome and call out splicing junctions for the following analysis, such as the analysis of alternative splicing and isoform construction. However, because of the existence of introns, when RNA-seq reads are aligned to the reference genome, reads can not be fully mapped at splicing sites. Thus, it is challenging to align reads and call out splicing junctions accurately. In this paper, we present a classification based approach for calling splicing junctions from RNA-seq data, which is implemented in the program SpliceJumper. SpliceJumper uses a machine learning approach which combines multiple features extracted from RNA-seq data. We compare SpliceJumper with two existing RNA-seq analysis approaches, TopHat2 and MapSplice2, on both simulated and real data. Our results show that SpliceJumper outperforms TopHat2 and MapSplice2 in accuracy. The program SpliceJumper can be downloaded at 
Availability of affordable and accessible whole genome sequencing for biomedical applications poses a number of statistical challenges and opportunities, particularly related to the analysis of rare variants and sparseness of the data. Although efforts have been devoted to address these challenges, the performance of statistical methods for rare variants analysis still needs further consideration. Result: We introduce a new approach that applies restricted principal component analysis with convex penalization and then selects the best predictors of a phenotype by a concave penalized regression model, while estimating the impact of each genomic region on the phenotype. Using simulated data, we show that the proposed method maintains good power for association testing while keeping the false discovery rate low under a verity of genetic architectures. Illustrative data analyses reveal encouraging result of this method in comparison with other commonly applied methods for rare variants analysis. Conclusion: By taking into account linkage disequilibrium and sparseness of the data, the proposed method improves power and controls the false discovery rate compared to other commonly applied methods for rare variant analyses.
A key challenge in analyzing high throughput Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) arrays is the accurate inference of genotypes for SNPs with low minor allele frequencies. A number of calling algorithms have been developed to infer genotypes for common SNPs, but they are limited in their performance in calling rare SNPs. The existing algorithms can be broadly classified into three categories, including: population-based methods, SNP-based methods, and a hybrid of the two approaches. Despite the relatively better performance of the hybrid approach, it is still challenging to analyze rare SNPs. We propose to utilize information from samples with known genotypes to develop a two stage genotyping procedure, namely M3-S, for rare SNP calling. This new approach can improve genotyping accuracy through clearly defining the boundaries of genotype clusters from samples with known genotypes, and enlarge the call rate by combining the simulated data based on the inferred genotype clusters information with the study population. Applications to real data demonstrates that this new approach M3-S outperforms existing methods in calling rare SNPs. 
Numerous simulation tools based on specific assumptions have been proposed to simulate populations. Here we present a simulation tool named DHOEM (densification of haplotypes by loess regression and maximum likelihood) which is free from population assumptions and simulates new markers in real SNP marker data. The main objective of DHOEM is to generate a new population, which incorporates real and simulated SNP by statistical learning from an initial population, which match the realized features of the latter. To demonstrate DHOEM’s abilities, we used a sample of 704 haplotypes for 12 chromosomes with 8336 SNP from a synthetic population, used for breeding upland rice in Latin America. The distributions of allele frequencies, pairwise SNP LD coefficients and data structures, before and after marker densification of the associated marker data set, were shown to be in relatively good agreement at moderate degrees of marker densification. DHOEM is a user-friendly tool that allows the user to specify the level of marker density desired, with a user defined minor allele frequency (MAF) limit, which is produced in a reasonable computation time. DHOEM is a user-friendly and useful tool for simulation and methodological studies in quantitative genetics and breeding.
Nuclear receptors (NRs) form a large family of ligand-inducible transcription factors that regulate gene expressions involved in numerous physiological phenomena, such as embryogenesis, homeostasis, cell growth and death. These nuclear receptors-related pathways are important targets of marketed drugs. Therefore, the design of a reliable computational model for predicting NRs from amino acid sequence has now been a significant biomedical problem. Conjoint triad feature (CTF) mainly considers neighbor relationships in protein sequences by encoding each protein sequence using the triad (continuous three amino acids) frequency distribution extracted from a 7-letter reduced alphabet. In addition, chaos game representation (CGR) can investigate the patterns hidden in protein sequences and visually reveal previously unknown structure. In this paper, three methods, CTF, CGR, amino acid composition (AAC), are applied to formulate the protein samples. By considering different combinations of three methods, we study seven groups of features, and each group is evaluated by the 10-fold cross-validation test. Meanwhile, a new non-redundant dataset containing 474 NR sequences and 500 non-NR sequences is built based on the latest NucleaRDB database. Comparing the results of numerical experiments, the group of combined features with CTF and AAC gets the best result with the accuracy of 96.30 % for identifying NRs from non-NRs. Moreover, if it is classified as a NR, it will be further put into the second level, which will classify a NR into one of the eight main subfamilies. At the second level, the group of combined features with CTF and AAC also gets the best accuracy of 94.73 %. Subsequently, the proposed predictor is compared with two existing methods, and the comparisons show that the accuracies of two levels significantly increase to 98.79 % (NR-2L: 92.56 %; iNR-PhysChem: 98.18 %; the first level) and 93.71 % (NR-2L: 88.68 %; iNR-PhysChem: 92.45 %; the second level) with the introduction of our CTF-based method. Finally, each component of CTF features is analyzed via the statistical significant test, and a simplified model only with the resulting top-50 significant features achieves accuracy of 95.28 %. The experimental results demonstrate that our CTF-based method is an effective way for predicting nuclear receptor proteins. Furthermore, the top-50 significant features obtained from the statistical significant test are considered as the “intrinsic features” in predicting NRs based on the analysis of relative importance. 
The Pacific oyster, Crassostrea gigas, is one of the most important aquaculture shellfish resources worldwide. Important efforts have been undertaken towards a better knowledge of its genome and transcriptome, which makes now C. gigas becoming a model organism among lophotrochozoans, the under-described sister clade of ecdysozoans within protostomes. These massive sequencing efforts offer the opportunity to assemble gene expression data and make such resource accessible and exploitable for the scientific community. Therefore, we undertook this assembly into an up-to-date publicly available transcriptome database: the GigaTON (Gigas TranscriptOme pipeliNe) database. Description: We assembled 2204 million sequences obtained from 114 publicly available RNA-seq libraries that were realized using all embryo-larval development stages, adult organs, different environmental stressors including heavy metals, temperature, salinity and exposure to air, which were mostly performed as part of the Crassostrea gigas genome project. This data was analyzed in silico and resulted into 56621 newly assembled contigs that were deposited into a publicly available database, the GigaTON database. This database also provides powerful and user-friendly request tools to browse and retrieve information about annotation, expression level, UTRs, splice and polymorphism, and gene ontology associated to all the contigs into each, and between all libraries. The GigaTON database provides a convenient, potent and versatile interface to browse, retrieve, confront and compare massive transcriptomic information in an extensive range of conditions, tissues and developmental stages in Crassostrea gigas. To our knowledge, the GigaTON database constitutes the most extensive transcriptomic database to date in marine invertebrates, thereby a new reference transcriptome in the oyster, a highly valuable resource to physiologists and evolutionary biologists.
We describe a suite of tools and methods that form a core set of capabilities for researchers and clinical investigators to evaluate multiple analytical pipelines and quantify sensitivity and variability of the results while conducting large-scale studies in investigative pathology and oncology. The overarching objective of the current investigation is to address the challenges of large data sizes and high computational demands. The proposed tools and methods take advantage of state-of-the-art parallel machines and efficient content-based image searching strategies. The content based image retrieval (CBIR) algorithms can quickly detect and retrieve image patches similar to a query patch using a hierarchical analysis approach. The analysis component based on high performance computing can carry out consensus clustering on 500,000 data points using a large shared memory system. Our work demonstrates efficient CBIR algorithms and high performance computing can be leveraged for efficient analysis of large microscopy images to meet the challenges of clinically salient applications in pathology. These technologies enable researchers and clinical investigators to make more effective use of the rich informational content contained within digitized microscopy specimens.
Transcription factors (TFs) are important regulatory proteins that govern transcriptional regulation. Today, it is known that in higher organisms different TFs have to cooperate rather than acting individually in order to control complex genetic programs. The identification of these interactions is an important challenge for understanding the molecular mechanisms of regulating biological processes. In this study, we present a new method based on pointwise mutual information, PC-TraFF, which considers the genome as a document, the sequences as sentences, and TF binding sites (TFBSs) as words to identify interacting TFs in a set of sequences. To demonstrate the effectiveness of PC-TraFF, we performed a genome-wide analysis and a breast cancer-associated sequence set analysis for protein coding and miRNA genes. Our results show that in any of these sequence sets, PC-TraFF is able to identify important interacting TF pairs, for most of which we found support by previously published experimental results. Further, we made a pairwise comparison between PC-TraFF and three conventional methods. The outcome of this comparison study strongly suggests that all these methods focus on different important aspects of interaction between TFs and thus the pairwise overlap between any of them is only marginal. In this study, adopting the idea from the field of linguistics in the field of bioinformatics, we develop a new information theoretic method, PC-TraFF, for the identification of potentially collaborating transcription factors based on the idiosyncrasy of their binding site distributions on the genome. The results of our study show that PC-TraFF can succesfully identify known interacting TF pairs and thus its currently biologically uncorfirmed predictions could provide new hypotheses for further experimental validation. Additionally, the comparison of the results of PC-TraFF with the results of previous methods demonstrates that different methods with their specific scopes can perfectly supplement each other. Overall, our analyses indicate that PC-TraFF is a time-efficient method where its algorithm has a tractable computational time and memory consumption.The PC-TraFF server is freely accessible at -goettingen.de/ 
Inferring gene regulatory network (GRN) has been an important topic in Bioinformatics. Many computational methods infer the GRN from high-throughput expression data. Due to the presence of time delays in the regulatory relationships, High-Order Dynamic Bayesian Network (HO-DBN) is a good model of GRN. However, previous GRN inference methods assume causal sufficiency, i.e. no unobserved common cause. This assumption is convenient but unrealistic, because it is possible that relevant factors have not even been conceived of and therefore un-measured. Therefore an inference method that also handles hidden common cause(s) is highly desirable. Also, previous methods for discovering hidden common causes either do not handle multi-step time delays or restrict that the parents of hidden common causes are not observed genes. We have developed a discrete HO-DBN learning algorithm that can infer also hidden common cause(s) from discrete time series expression data, with some assumptions on the conditional distribution, but is less restrictive than previous methods. We assume that each hidden variable has only observed variables as children and parents, with at least two children and possibly no parents. We also make the simplifying assumption that children of hidden variable(s) are not linked to each other. Moreover, our proposed algorithm can also utilize multiple short time series (not necessarily of the same length), as long time series are difficult to obtain. We have performed extensive experiments using synthetic data on GRNs of size up to 100, with up to 10 hidden nodes. Experiment results show that our proposed algorithm can recover the causal GRNs adequately given the incomplete data. Using the limited real expression data and small subnetworks of the YEASTRACT network, we have also demonstrated the potential of our algorithm on real data, though more time series expression data is needed.
In recent years, hyperspectral microscopy techniques such as infrared or Raman microscopy have been applied successfully for diagnostic purposes. In many of the corresponding studies, it is common practice to measure one and the same sample under different types of microscopes. Any joint analysis of the two image modalities requires to overlay the images, so that identical positions in the sample are located at the same coordinate in both images. This step, commonly referred to as image registration, has typically been performed manually in the lack of established automated computational registration tools. We propose a corresponding registration algorithm that addresses this registration problem, and demonstrate the robustness of our approach in different constellations of microscopes. First, we deal with subregion registration of Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) microscopic images in whole-slide histopathological staining images. Second, we register FTIR imaged cores of tissue microarrays in their histopathologically stained counterparts, and finally perform registration of Coherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopic (CARS) images within histopathological staining images. Our validation involves a large variety of samples obtained from colon, bladder, and lung tissue on three different types of microscopes, and demonstrates that our proposed method works fully automated and highly robust in different constellations of microscopes involving diverse types of tissue samples. 
Identification of bacteria may be based on sequencing and molecular analysis of a specific locus such as 16S rRNA, or a set of loci such as in multilocus sequence typing. In the near future, healthcare institutions and routine diagnostic microbiology laboratories may need to sequence the entire genome of microbial isolates. Therefore we have developed Reads2Type, a web-based tool for taxonomy identification based on whole bacterial genome sequence data. Raw sequencing data provided by the user are mapped against a set of marker probes that are derived from currently available bacteria complete genomes. Using a dataset of 1003 whole genome sequenced bacteria from various sequencing platforms, Reads2Type was able to identify the species with 99.5 % accuracy and on the minutes time scale. In comparison with other tools, Reads2Type offers the advantage of not needing to transfer sequencing files, as the entire computational analysis is done on the computer of whom utilizes the web application. This also prevents data privacy issues to arise. The Reads2Type tool is available at ~dhany/reads2type.html.
Analysis of single cells in their native environment is a powerful method to address key questions in developmental systems biology. Confocal microscopy imaging of intact tissues, followed by automatic image segmentation, provides a means to conduct cytometric studies while at the same time preserving crucial information about the spatial organization of the tissue and morphological features of the cells. This technique is rapidly evolving but is still not in widespread use among research groups that do not specialize in technique development, perhaps in part for lack of tools that automate repetitive tasks while allowing experts to make the best use of their time in injecting their domain-specific knowledge. Here we focus on a well-established stem cell model system, the C. elegans gonad, as well as on two other model systems widely used to study cell fate specification and morphogenesis: the pre-implantation mouse embryo and the developing mouse olfactory epithelium. We report a pipeline that integrates machine-learning-based cell detection, fast human-in-the-loop curation of these detections, and running of active contours seeded from detections to segment cells. The procedure can be bootstrapped by a small number of manual detections, and outperforms alternative pieces of software we benchmarked on C. elegans gonad datasets. Using cell segmentations to quantify fluorescence contents, we report previously-uncharacterized cell behaviors in the model systems we used. We further show how cell morphological features can be used to identify cell cycle phase; this provides a basis for future tools that will streamline cell cycle experiments by minimizing the need for exogenous cell cycle phase labels. High-throughput 3D segmentation makes it possible to extract rich information from images that are routinely acquired by biologists, and provides insights — in particular with respect to the cell cycle — that would be difficult to derive otherwise. 
Available methods to simulate nucleotide or amino acid data typically use Markov models to simulate each position independently. These approaches are not appropriate to assess the performance of combinatorial and probabilistic methods that look for coevolving positions in nucleotide or amino acid sequences. We have developed a web-based platform that gives a user-friendly access to two phylogenetic-based methods implementing the Coev model: the evaluation of coevolving scores and the simulation of coevolving positions. We have also extended the capabilities of the Coev model to allow for the generalization of the alphabet used in the Markov model, which can now analyse both nucleotide and amino acid data sets. The simulation of coevolving positions is novel and builds upon the developments of the Coev model. It allows user to simulate pairs of dependent nucleotide or amino acid positions. The main focus of our paper is the new simulation method we present for coevolving positions. The implementation of this method is embedded within the web platform Coev-web that is freely accessible at -it.ch/, and was tested in most modern web browsers.
The alignment of multiple protein sequences is one of the most commonly performed tasks in bioinformatics. In spite of considerable research and efforts that have been recently deployed for improving the performance of multiple sequence alignment (MSA) algorithms, finding a highly accurate alignment between multiple protein sequences is still a challenging problem. We propose a novel and efficient algorithm called, MSAIndelFR, for multiple sequence alignment using the information on the predicted locations of IndelFRs and the computed average log–loss values obtained from IndelFR predictors, each of which is designed for a different protein fold. We demonstrate that the introduction of a new variable gap penalty function based on the predicted locations of the IndelFRs and the computed average log–loss values into the proposed algorithm substantially improves the protein alignment accuracy. This is illustrated by evaluating the performance of the algorithm in aligning sequences belonging to the protein folds for which the IndelFR predictors already exist and by using the reference alignments of the four popular benchmarks, BAliBASE 3.0, OXBENCH, PREFAB 4.0, and SABRE (SABmark 1.65). We have proposed a novel and efficient algorithm, the MSAIndelFR algorithm, for multiple protein sequence alignment incorporating a new variable gap penalty function. It is shown that the performance of the proposed algorithm is superior to that of the most–widely used alignment algorithms, Clustal W2, Clustal Omega, Kalign2, MSAProbs, MAFFT, MUSCLE, ProbCons and Probalign, in terms of both the sum–of–pairs and total column metrics. 
The number of γH2AX foci per nucleus is an accepted measure of the number of DNA double-strand breaks in single cells. One of the experimental techniques for γH2AX detection in cultured cells is immunofluorescent labelling of γH2AX and nuclei followed by microscopy imaging and analysis. In this study, we present the algorithm FoCo for reliable and robust automatic nuclear foci counting in single cell images. FoCo has the following advantages with respect to other software packages: i) the ability to reliably quantify even densely distributed foci, e.g., on images of cells subjected to radiation doses up to 10 Gy, ii) robustness of foci quantification in the sense of suppressing out-of-focus background signal, and iii) its simplicity. FoCo requires only 5 parameters that have to be adjusted by the user. FoCo is an open-source user-friendly software with GUI for individual foci counting, which is able to produce reliable and robust foci quantifications even for low signal/noise ratios and densely distributed foci. 
Identification of one or several disease causing variant(s) from the large collection of variants present in an individual is often achieved by the sequential use of heuristic filters. The recent development of whole exome sequencing enrichment designs for several non-model species created the need for a species-independent, fast and versatile analysis tool, capable of tackling a wide variety of standard and more complex inheritance models. With this aim, we developed “Mendelian”, an R-package that can be used for heuristic variant filtering. The R-package Mendelian offers fast and convenient filters to analyze putative variants for both recessive and dominant models of inheritance, with variable degrees of penetrance and detectance. Analysis of trios is supported. Filtering against variant databases and annotation of variants is also included. This package is not species specific and supports parallel computation. We validated this package by reanalyzing data from a whole exome sequencing experiment on intellectual disability in humans. In a second example, we identified the mutations responsible for coat color in the dog. This is the first example of whole exome sequencing without prior mapping in the dog. Conclusion: We developed an R-package that enables the identification of disease-causing variants from the long list of variants called in sequencing experiments. The software and a detailed manual are available at  
Molecular interactions between proteins and DNA molecules underlie many cellular processes, including transcriptional regulation, chromosome replication, and nucleosome positioning. Computational analyses of protein-DNA interactions rely on experimental data characterizing known protein-DNA interactions structurally and biochemically. While many databases exist that contain either structural or biochemical data, few integrate these two data sources in a unified fashion. Such integration is becoming increasingly critical with the rapid growth of structural and biochemical data, and the emergence of algorithms that rely on the synthesis of multiple data types to derive computational models of molecular interactions. Description: We have developed an integrated affinity-structure database in which the experimental and quantitative DNA binding affinities of helix-turn-helix proteins are mapped onto the crystal structures of the corresponding protein-DNA complexes. This database provides access to: (i) protein-DNA structures, (ii) quantitative summaries of protein-DNA binding affinities using position weight matrices, and (iii) raw experimental data of protein-DNA binding instances. Critically, this database establishes a correspondence between experimental structural data and quantitative binding affinity data at the single basepair level. Furthermore, we present a novel alignment algorithm that structurally aligns the protein-DNA complexes in the database and creates a unified residue-level coordinate system for comparing the physico-chemical environments at the interface between complexes. Using this unified coordinate system, we compute the statistics of atomic interactions at the protein-DNA interface of helix-turn-helix proteins. We provide an interactive website for visualization, querying, and analyzing this database, and a downloadable version to facilitate programmatic analysis. This database will facilitate the analysis of protein-DNA interactions and the development of programmatic computational methods that capitalize on integration of structural and biochemical datasets. The database can be accessed at 
Many functional RNA molecules fold into pseudoknot structures, which are often essential for the formation of an RNA’s 3D structure. Currently the design of RNA molecules, which fold into a specific structure (known as RNA inverse folding) within biotechnological applications, is lacking the feature of incorporating pseudoknot structures into the design. Hairpin-(H)- and kissing hairpin-(K)-type pseudoknots cover a wide range of biologically functional pseudoknots and can be represented on a secondary structure level. The RNA inverse folding program antaRNA, which takes secondary structure, target GC-content and sequence constraints as input, is extended to provide solutions for such H- and K-type pseudoknotted secondary structure constraint.We demonstrate the easy and flexible interchangeability of modules within the antaRNA framework by incorporating pKiss as structure prediction tool capable of predicting the mentioned pseudoknot types. The performance of the approach is demonstrated on a subset of the Pseudobase ++ dataset. This new service is available via a standalone version and is also part of the Freiburg RNA Tools webservice. Furthermore, antaRNA is available in Galaxy and is part of the RNA-workbench Docker image.
Plasma miRNAs have the potential as cancer biomarkers but no consolidated guidelines for data mining in this field are available. The purpose of the study was to apply a supervised data analysis strategy in a context where prior knowledge is available, i.e., that of hemolysis-related miRNAs deregulation, so as to compare our results with existing evidence. We developed a structured strategy with innovative applications of existing bioinformatics methods for supervised analyses including: 1) the combination of two statistical (t- and Anderson-Darling) test results to detect miRNAs with significant fold change or general distributional differences in class comparison, which could reveal hidden differential biological processes worth to be considered for building predictive tools; 2) a bootstrap selection procedure together with machine learning techniques in class prediction to guarantee the transferability of results and explore the interconnections among the selected miRNAs, which is important for highlighting their inherent biological dependences. The strategy was applied to develop a classifier for discriminating between hemolyzed and not hemolyzed plasma samples, defined according to a recently published hemolysis score. We identified five miRNAs with increased expression in hemolyzed plasma samples (miR-486-5p, miR-92a, miR-451, miR-16, miR-22). We identified four miRNAs previously reported in the literature as hemolysis related together with a new one (miR-22).which needs further investigations. Our findings confirm the validity of the proposed strategy and, in parallel, the hemolysis score capability to be used as pre-analytic hemolysis detector. R codes for implementing the approaches are provided. 
For three decades, sequence logos are the de facto standard for the visualization of sequence motifs in biology and bioinformatics. Reasons for this success story are their simplicity and clarity. The number of inferred and published motifs grows with the number of data sets and motif extraction algorithms. Hence, it becomes more and more important to perceive differences between motifs. However, motif differences are hard to detect from individual sequence logos in case of multiple motifs for one transcription factor, highly similar binding motifs of different transcription factors, or multiple motifs for one protein domain. Here, we present DiffLogo, a freely available, extensible, and user-friendly R package for visualizing motif differences. DiffLogo is capable of showing differences between DNA motifs as well as protein motifs in a pair-wise manner resulting in publication-ready figures. In case of more than two motifs, DiffLogo is capable of visualizing pair-wise differences in a tabular form. Here, the motifs are ordered by similarity, and the difference logos are colored for clarity. We demonstrate the benefit of DiffLogo on CTCF motifs from different human cell lines, on E-box motifs of three basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors as examples for comparison of DNA motifs, and on F-box domains from three different families as example for comparison of protein motifs. DiffLogo provides an intuitive visualization of motif differences. It enables the illustration and investigation of differences between highly similar motifs such as binding patterns of transcription factors for different cell types, treatments, and algorithmic approaches. 
Because of the short read length of high throughput sequencing data, assembly errors are introduced in genome assembly, which may have adverse impact to the downstream data analysis. Several tools have been developed to eliminate these errors by either 1) comparing the assembled sequences with some similar reference genome, or 2) analyzing paired-end reads aligned to the assembled sequences and determining inconsistent features alone mis-assembled sequences. However, the former approach cannot distinguish real structural variations between the target genome and the reference genome while the latter approach could have many false positive detections (correctly assembled sequence being considered as mis-assembled sequence). We present misFinder, a tool that aims to identify the assembly errors with high accuracy in an unbiased way and correct these errors at their mis-assembled positions to improve the assembly accuracy for downstream analysis. It combines the information of reference (or close related reference) genome and aligned paired-end reads to the assembled sequence. Assembly errors and correct assemblies corresponding to structural variations can be detected by comparing the genome reference and assembled sequence. Different types of assembly errors can then be distinguished from the mis-assembled sequence by analyzing the aligned paired-end reads using multiple features derived from coverage and consistence of insert distance to obtain high confident error calls. We tested the performance of misFinder on both simulated and real paired-end reads data, and misFinder gave accurate error calls with only very few miscalls. And, we further compared misFinder with QUAST and REAPR. misFinder outperformed QUAST and REAPR by 1) identified more true positive mis-assemblies with very few false positives and false negatives, and 2) distinguished the correct assemblies corresponding to structural variations from mis-assembled sequence. misFinder can be freely downloaded from  
Given a gene and a species tree, reconciliation methods attempt to retrieve the macro-evolutionary events that best explain the discrepancies between the two tree topologies. The DTL parsimonious approach searches for a most parsimonious reconciliation between a gene tree and a (dated) species tree, considering four possible macro-evolutionary events (speciation, duplication, transfer, and loss) with specific costs. Unfortunately, many events are erroneously predicted due to errors in the input trees, inappropriate input cost values or because of the existence of several equally parsimonious scenarios. It is thus crucial to provide a measure of the reliability for predicted events. It has been recently proposed that the reliability of an event can be estimated via its frequency in the set of most parsimonious reconciliations obtained using a variety of reasonable input cost vectors. To compute such a support, a straightforward but time-consuming approach is to generate the costs slightly departing from the original ones, independently compute the set of all most parsimonious reconciliations for each vector, and combine these sets a posteriori. Another proposed approach uses Pareto-optimality to partition cost values into regions which induce reconciliations with the same number of DTL events. The support of an event is then defined as its frequency in the set of regions. However, often, the number of regions is not large enough to provide reliable supports. We present here a method to compute efficiently event supports via a polynomial-sized graph, which can represent all reconciliations for several different costs. Moreover, two methods are proposed to take into account alternative input costs: either explicitly providing an input cost range or allowing a tolerance for the over cost of a reconciliation. Our methods are faster than the region based method, substantially faster than the sampling-costs approach, and have a higher event-prediction accuracy on simulated data. We propose a new approach to improve the accuracy of event supports for parsimonious reconciliation methods to account for uncertainty in the input costs. Furthermore, because of their speed, our methods can be used on large gene families. Our algorithms are implemented in the ecceTERA program, freely available from -montp2.fr/MBB/. 
Metabolism is generally modeled by directed networks where nodes represent reactions and/or metabolites. In order to explore metabolic pathway conservation and divergence among organisms, previous studies were based on graph alignment to find similar pathways. Few years ago, the concept of chemical transformation modules, also called reaction modules, was introduced and correspond to sequences of chemical transformations which are conserved in metabolism. We propose here a novel graph representation of the metabolic network where reactions sharing a same chemical transformation type are grouped in Reaction Molecular Signatures (RMS). RMS were automatically computed for all reactions and encode changes in atoms and bonds. A reaction network containing all available metabolic knowledge was then reduced by an aggregation of reaction nodes and edges to obtain a RMS network. Paths in this network were explored and a substantial number of conserved chemical transformation modules was detected. Furthermore, this graph-based formalism allows us to define several path scores reflecting different biological conservation meanings. These scores are significantly higher for paths corresponding to known metabolic pathways and were used conjointly to build association rules that should predict metabolic pathway types like biosynthesis or degradation. This representation of metabolism in a RMS network offers new insights to capture relevant metabolic contexts. Furthermore, along with genomic context methods, it should improve the detection of gene clusters corresponding to new metabolic pathways. 
Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) are widely used molecular markers, and their use has increased massively since the inception of Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies, which allow detection of large numbers of SNPs at low cost. However, both NGS data and their analysis are error-prone, which can lead to the generation of false positive (FP) SNPs. We explored the relationship between FP SNPs and seven factors involved in mapping-based variant calling — quality of the reference sequence, read length, choice of mapper and variant caller, mapping stringency and filtering of SNPs by read mapping quality and read depth. This resulted in 576 possible factor level combinations. We used error- and variant-free simulated reads to ensure that every SNP found was indeed a false positive. The variation in the number of FP SNPs generated ranged from 0 to 36,621 for the 120 million base pairs (Mbp) genome. All of the experimental factors tested had statistically significant effects on the number of FP SNPs generated and there was a considerable amount of interaction between the different factors. Using a fragmented reference sequence led to a dramatic increase in the number of FP SNPs generated, as did relaxed read mapping and a lack of SNP filtering. The choice of reference assembler, mapper and variant caller also significantly affected the outcome. The effect of read length was more complex and suggests a possible interaction between mapping specificity and the potential for contributing more false positives as read length increases. The choice of tools and parameters involved in variant calling can have a dramatic effect on the number of FP SNPs produced, with particularly poor combinations of software and/or parameter settings yielding tens of thousands in this experiment. Between-factor interactions make simple recommendations difficult for a SNP discovery pipeline but the quality of the reference sequence is clearly of paramount importance. Our findings are also a stark reminder that it can be unwise to use the relaxed mismatch settings provided as defaults by some read mappers when reads are being mapped to a relatively unfinished reference sequence from e.g. a non-model organism in its early stages of genomic exploration. 
Measuring the extent of shared ancestry between individuals or organisms is important in many fields, including forensic science, conservation genetics and animal breeding. The traditional approach is to calculate the expected degree of relatedness between individuals in a pedigree. This assumes that the founders of the pedigree are non-inbred and unrelated to each other, which is rarely the case. In contrast, molecular data allow measurement of actual relatedness without knowledge of a pedigree. Methods to do this have been proposed, but generally do not take the lengths of the genomic regions shared between individuals into account. Two measures based on the extent of haplotype sharing between genomes are proposed. The intercept measure B estimates the fraction of shared genome between individuals, and the product measure C is closely related to the numerator relationship matrix A. Both are based on a model for the joint distribution of markers at the haplotype level. The two measures are compared to the pedigree-based measure A and to vanRaden’s G, a frequently used molecular measure, using a set of data comprising 5037 dairy cattle. The comparison criteria include the ability to capture genealogical relatedness and the prediction accuracy obtained when used in genomic prediction. Both B and C explain around 95 % of the variation in A, whereas G explains around 6 %. G captures genealogical relatedness poorly, particularly for distantly related individuals (second cousins or farther). Both B and C tend to be larger than A but this can be ascribed to the assumption of non-inbred unrelated founders. Using C in linear mixed models results in slightly higher prediction accuracy than G, and using B results in slightly lower prediction accuracy. The two proposed measures of relatedness capture genealogical relatedness well, outperforming vanRaden’s G in this respect. When used in genomic prediction models, the product measure leads to slightly improved prediction accuracy.
Bacteriocins are peptide-derived molecules produced by bacteria, whose recently-discovered functions include virulence factors and signaling molecules as well as their better known roles as antibiotics. To date, close to five hundred bacteriocins have been identified and classified. Recent discoveries have shown that bacteriocins are highly diverse and widely distributed among bacterial species. Given the heterogeneity of bacteriocin compounds, many tools struggle with identifying novel bacteriocins due to their vast sequence and structural diversity. Many bacteriocins undergo post-translational processing or modifications necessary for the biosynthesis of the final mature form. Enzymatic modification of bacteriocins as well as their export is achieved by proteins whose genes are often located in a discrete gene cluster proximal to the bacteriocin precursor gene, referred to as context genes in this study. Although bacteriocins themselves are structurally diverse, context genes have been shown to be largely conserved across unrelated species. Methods: Using this knowledge, we set out to identify new candidates for context genes which may clarify how bacteriocins are synthesized, and identify new candidates for bacteriocins that bear no sequence similarity to known toxins. To achieve these goals, we have developed a software tool, Bacteriocin Operon and gene block Associator (BOA) that can identify homologous bacteriocin associated gene blocks and predict novel ones. BOA generates profile Hidden Markov Models from the clusters of bacteriocin context genes, and uses them to identify novel bacteriocin gene blocks and operons. Results and conclusions: We provide a novel dataset of predicted bacteriocins and context genes. We also discover that several phyla have a strong preference for bacteriocin genes, suggesting distinct functions for this group of molecules. Software Availability: 
Viruses are the most abundant and genetically diverse biological entities on earth, yet the repertoire of viral proteins remains poorly explored. As the number of sequenced virus genomes grows into the thousands, and the number of viral proteins into the hundreds of thousands, we report a systematic computational analysis of the point of first-contact between viruses and their hosts, namely viral transmembrane (TM) proteins. The complement of α-helical TM proteins in double-stranded DNA viruses infecting bacteria and archaea reveals large-scale trends that differ from those of their hosts. Viruses typically encode a substantially lower fraction of TM proteins than archaea or bacteria, with the notable exception of viruses with virions containing a lipid component such as a lipid envelope, internal lipid core, or inner membrane vesicle. Compared to bacteriophages, archaeal viruses are substantially enriched in membrane proteins. However, this feature is not always stable throughout the evolution of a viral lineage; for example, TM proteins are not part of the common heritage shared between Lipothrixviridae and Rudiviridae. In contrast to bacteria and archaea, viruses almost completely lack proteins with complicated membrane topologies composed of more than 4 TM segments, with the few detected exceptions being obvious cases of relatively recent horizontal transfer from the host. The dramatic differences between the membrane proteomes of cells and viruses stem from the fact that viruses do not depend on essential membranes for energy transformation, ion homeostasis, nutrient transport and signaling. 
Next generation sequencing enables studying heterogeneous populations of viral infections. When the sequencing is done at high coverage depth (“deep sequencing”), low frequency variants can be detected. Here we present QQ-SNV (), a logistic regression classifier model developed for the Illumina sequencing platforms that uses the quantiles of the quality scores, to distinguish true single nucleotide variants from sequencing errors based on the estimated SNV probability. To train the model, we created a dataset of an in silico mixture of five HIV-1 plasmids. Testing of our method in comparison to the existing methods LoFreq, ShoRAH, and V-Phaser 2 was performed on two HIV and four HCV plasmid mixture datasets and one influenza H1N1 clinical dataset. For default application of QQ-SNV, variants were called using a SNV probability cutoff of 0.5 (QQ-SNVD). To improve the sensitivity we used a SNV probability cutoff of 0.0001 (QQ-SNVHS). To also increase specificity, SNVs called were overruled when their frequency was below the 80th percentile calculated on the distribution of error frequencies (QQ-SNVHS-P80).When comparing QQ-SNV versus the other methods on the plasmid mixture test sets, QQ-SNVD performed similarly to the existing approaches. QQ-SNVHS was more sensitive on all test sets but with more false positives. QQ-SNVHS-P80 was found to be the most accurate method over all test sets by balancing sensitivity and specificity. When applied to a paired-end HCV sequencing study, with lowest spiked-in true frequency of 0.5 %, QQ-SNVHS-P80 revealed a sensitivity of 100 % (vs. 40–60 % for the existing methods) and a specificity of 100 % (vs. 98.0–99.7 % for the existing methods). In addition, QQ-SNV required the least overall computation time to process the test sets.Finally, when testing on a clinical sample, four putative true variants with frequency below 0.5 % were consistently detected by QQ-SNVHS-P80 from different generations of Illumina sequencers. We developed and successfully evaluated a novel method, called QQ-SNV, for highly efficient single nucleotide variant calling on Illumina deep sequencing virology data. 
The explosion of NGS (Next Generation Sequencing) sequence data requires a huge effort in Bioinformatics methods and analyses. The creation of dedicated, robust and reliable pipelines able to handle dozens of samples from raw FASTQ data to relevant biological data is a time-consuming task in all projects relying on NGS. To address this, we created a generic and modular toolbox for developing such pipelines. TOGGLE (TOolbox for Generic nGs anaLysEs) is a suite of tools able to design pipelines that manage large sets of NGS softwares and utilities. Moreover, TOGGLE offers an easy way to manipulate the various options of the different softwares through the pipelines in using a single basic configuration file, which can be changed for each assay without having to change the code itself. We also describe one implementation of TOGGLE in a complete analysis pipeline designed for SNP discovery for large sets of genomic data, ready to use in different environments (from a single machine to HPC clusters). Conclusion: TOGGLE speeds up the creation of robust pipelines with reliable log tracking and data flow, for a large range of analyses. Moreover, it enables Biologists to concentrate on the biological relevance of results, and change the experimental conditions easily. The whole code and test data are available at  
Magnetic resonance spectroscopy provides metabolic information about living tissues in a non-invasive way. However, there are only few multi-centre clinical studies, mostly performed on a single scanner model or data format, as there is no flexible way of documenting and exchanging processed magnetic resonance spectroscopy data in digital format. This is because the DICOM standard for spectroscopy deals with unprocessed data.This paper proposes a plugin tool developed for jMRUI, namely jMRUI2XML, to tackle the latter limitation. jMRUI is a software tool for magnetic resonance spectroscopy data processing that is widely used in the magnetic resonance spectroscopy community and has evolved into a plugin platform allowing for implementation of novel features. jMRUI2XML is a Java solution that facilitates common preprocessing of magnetic resonance spectroscopy data across multiple scanners. Its main characteristics are: 1) it automates magnetic resonance spectroscopy preprocessing, and 2) it can be a platform for outputting exchangeable magnetic resonance spectroscopy data. The plugin works with any kind of data that can be opened by jMRUI and outputs in extensible markup language format. Data processing templates can be generated and saved for later use.The output format opens the way for easy data sharing- due to the documentation of the preprocessing parameters and the intrinsic anonymization - for example for performing pattern recognition analysis on multicentre/multi-manufacturer magnetic resonance spectroscopy data. jMRUI2XML provides a self-contained and self-descriptive format accounting for the most relevant information needed for exchanging magnetic resonance spectroscopy data in digital form, as well as for automating its processing. This allows for tracking the procedures the data has undergone, which makes the proposed tool especially useful when performing pattern recognition analysis. Moreover, this work constitutes a first proposal for a minimum amount of information that should accompany any magnetic resonance processed spectrum, towards the goal of achieving better transferability of magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies. 
Identifying protein-coding genes from species without a reference genome sequence can be complicated by the presence of sequencing errors, particularly insertions and deletions. A number of tools capable of correcting erroneous frame-shifts within assembled transcripts are available but often do not report back DNA sequences required for subsequent phylogenetic analysis. Amongst those that do, the Genewise algorithm is the most effective. However, it requires a homology wrapper to be used in this way, and here we demonstrate it perfectly corrects frame-shifts only 60 % of the time. We therefore created AlignWise, a tool that combines Genewise with our own homology-based method, AlignFS, to identify protein-coding regions and correct erroneous frame-shifts, suitable for subsequent phylogenetic analysis. We compared AlignWise against other open reading frame finding software and demonstrate that the AlignFS algorithm is more accurate than Genewise at correcting frame-shifts within an order. We show that AlignWise provides the greatest accuracy at higher evolutionary distances, out-performing both AlignFS and Genewise individually. AlignWise produces a single ORF per transcript and identifies and corrects frame-shifts with high accuracy. It is therefore well suited for analysing novel transcriptome assemblies and EST sequences in the absence of a reference genome.
The detection of regulatory regions in candidate sequences is essential for the understanding of the regulation of a particular gene and the mechanisms involved. This paper proposes a novel methodology based on information theoretic metrics for finding regulatory sequences in promoter regions. This methodology (SIGMA) has been tested on genomic sequence data for Homo sapiens and Mus musculus. SIGMA has been compared with different publicly available alternatives for motif detection, such as MEME/MAST, Biostrings (Bioconductor package), MotifRegressor, and previous work such Qresiduals projections or information theoretic based detectors. Comparative results, in the form of Receiver Operating Characteristic curves, show how, in 70 % of the studied Transcription Factor Binding Sites, the SIGMA detector has a better performance and behaves more robustly than the methods compared, while having a similar computational time. The performance of SIGMA can be explained by its parametric simplicity in the modelling of the non-linear co-variability in the binding motif positions. Sequence Information Gain based Motif Analysis is a generalisation of a non-linear model of the cis-regulatory sequences detection based on Information Theory. This generalisation allows us to detect transcription factor binding sites with maximum performance disregarding the covariability observed in the positions of the training set of sequences. SIGMA is freely available to the public at 
Statistical modeling of transcription factor binding sites is one of the classical fields in bioinformatics. The position weight matrix (PWM) model, which assumes statistical independence among all nucleotides in a binding site, used to be the standard model for this task for more than three decades but its simple assumptions are increasingly put into question. Recent high-throughput sequencing methods have provided data sets of sufficient size and quality for studying the benefits of more complex models. However, learning more complex models typically entails the danger of overfitting, and while model classes that dynamically adapt the model complexity to data have been developed, effective model selection is to date only possible for fully observable data, but not, e.g., within de novo motif discovery. To address this issue, we propose a stochastic algorithm for performing robust model selection in a latent variable setting. This algorithm yields a solution without relying on hyperparameter-tuning via massive cross-validation or other computationally expensive resampling techniques. Using this algorithm for learning inhomogeneous parsimonious Markov models, we study the degree of putative higher-order intra-motif dependencies for transcription factor binding sites inferred via de novo motif discovery from ChIP-seq data. We find that intra-motif dependencies are prevalent and not limited to first-order dependencies among directly adjacent nucleotides, but that second-order models appear to be the significantly better choice. The traditional PWM model appears to be indeed insufficient to infer realistic sequence motifs, as it is on average outperformed by more complex models that take into account intra-motif dependencies. Moreover, using such models together with an appropriate model selection procedure does not lead to a significant performance loss in comparison with the PWM model for any of the studied transcription factors. Hence, we find it worthwhile to recommend that any modern motif discovery algorithm should attempt to take into account intra-motif dependencies. 
The three-dimensional (3D) configuration of chromosomes within the eukaryote nucleus is an important factor for several cellular functions, including gene expression regulation, and has also been linked with cancer-causing translocation events. While visualization of such architecture remains limited to low resolutions, the ability to infer structures at increasing resolutions has been enabled by recently-devised chromosome conformation capture techniques. In particular, when coupled with next generation sequencing, such methods yield an inventory of genome-wide chromatin contacts or interactions. Various algorithms have been advanced to operate on such contact data to produce reconstructed 3D configurations. Studies have shown that these reconstructions can provide added value over raw interaction data with respect to downstream biological insights. However, only limited, low-resolution reconstructions have been realized for mammals due to computational bottlenecks. Here we propose a two-stage algorithm to partially overcome these computational barriers. The central idea is to initially utilize existing reconstruction techniques on an individual chromosome basis, using intra-chromosomal contacts, and then to relatively position these chromosome-level reconstructions using inter-chromosomal contacts. This two-stage strategy represents a natural approach in view of the within- versus between- chromosome distribution of contacts. It can increase resolution ≈ 20 fold for mouse and human. After describing the algorithm we present 3D architectures for mouse embryonic stem cells and human lymphoblastoid cells. We evaluate the impact of several factors on reconstruction reproducibility and explore a variety of sampling schemes. We further analyze replicate data at differing resolutions obtained from recently devised in situ Hi-C assays. In all instances we demonstrate insensitivity of the whole-genome 3D reconstruction obtained by the two-stage algorithm to the sampling strategy used. Our two-stage algorithm has the potential to significantly increase the resolution of 3D genome reconstructions. The improvements are such that we can progress from 1 Mb resolution to 100 kb resolution, notable since this latter value has been identified as critical to inferring topological domains in analyses performed on the contact (rather than 3D) level.
Genomic data production is at its highest level and continues to increase, making available novel primary data and existing public data to researchers for exploration. Here we explore the consequences of “batch” correction for biological discovery in two publicly available expression datasets. We consider this to include the estimation of and adjustment for wide-spread systematic heterogeneity in genomic measurements that is unrelated to the effects under study, whether it be technical or biological in nature. Methods: We present three illustrative data analyses using surrogate variable analysis (SVA) and describe how to perform artifact discovery in light of natural heterogeneity within biological groups, secondary biological questions of interest, and non-linear treatment effects in a dataset profiling differentiating pluripotent cells (GSE32923) and another from human brain tissue (GSE30272). Careful specification of biological effects of interest is very important to factor-based approaches like SVA. We demonstrate greatly sharpened global and gene-specific differential expression across treatment groups in stem cell systems. Similarly, we demonstrate how to preserve major non-linear effects of age across the lifespan in the brain dataset. However, the gains in precisely defining known effects of interest come at the cost of much other information in the “cleaned” data, including sex, common copy number effects and sample or cell line-specific molecular behavior. Our analyses indicate that data “cleaning” can be an important component of high-throughput genomic data analysis when interrogating explicitly defined effects in the context of data affected by robust technical artifacts. However, caution should be exercised to avoid removing biological signal of interest. It is also important to note that open data exploration is not possible after such supervised “cleaning”, because effects beyond those stipulated by the researcher may have been removed. With the goal of making these statistical algorithms more powerful and transparent to researchers in the biological sciences, we provide exploratory plots and accompanying R code for identifying and guiding “cleaning” process (). The impact of these methods is significant enough that we have made newly processed data available for the brain data set at  and GSE30272. 
?
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short regulatory RNAs derived from longer precursor RNAs. miRNA biogenesis has been studied in animals and plants, recently elucidating more complex aspects, such as non-conserved, species-specific, and heterogeneous miRNA precursor populations. Small RNA sequencing data can help in computationally identifying genomic loci of miRNA precursors. The challenge is to predict a valid miRNA precursor from inhomogeneous read coverage from a complex RNA library: while the mature miRNA typically produces many sequence reads, the remaining part of the precursor is covered very sparsely. As recent results suggest, alternative miRNA biogenesis pathways may lead to a more diverse miRNA precursor population than previously assumed. In plants, the latter manifests itself in e.g. complex secondary structures and expression from multiple loci within precursors. Current miRNA identification algorithms often depend on already existing gene annotation, and/or make use of specific miRNA precursor features such as precursor lengths, secondary structures etc. Consequently and in view of the emerging new understanding of a more complex miRNA biogenesis in plants, current tools may fail to characterise organism-specific and heterogeneous miRNA populations. miRA is a new tool to identify miRNA precursors in plants, allowing for heterogeneous and complex precursor populations. miRA requires small RNA sequencing data and a corresponding reference genome, and evaluates precursor secondary structures and precursor processing accuracy; key parameters can be adapted based on the specific organism under investigation. We show that miRA outperforms the currently best plant miRNA prediction tools both in sensitivity and specificity, for data involving Arabidopsis thaliana and the Volvocine algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii; the latter organism has been shown to exhibit a heterogeneous and complex precursor population with little cross-species miRNA sequence conservation, and therefore constitutes an ideal model organism. Furthermore we identify novel miRNAs in the Chlamydomonas-related organism Volvox carteri. We propose miRA, a new plant miRNA identification tool that is well adapted to complex precursor populations. miRA is particularly suited for organisms with no existing miRNA annotation, or without a known related organism with well characterized miRNAs. Moreover, miRA has proven its ability to identify species-specific miRNAs. miRA is flexible in its parameter settings, and produces user-friendly output files in various formats (pdf, csv, genome-browser-suitable annotation files, etc.). It is freely available at  
Analyzing the three-dimensional (3D) refractive index distribution of a single cell makes it possible to describe and characterize its inner structure in a marker-free manner. A dense, full-view tomographic data set is a set of images of a cell acquired for multiple rotational positions, densely distributed from 0 to 360 degrees. The reconstruction is commonly realized by projection tomography, which is based on the inversion of the Radon transform. The reconstruction quality of projection tomography is greatly improved when first order scattering, which becomes relevant when the imaging wavelength is comparable to the characteristic object size, is taken into account. This advanced reconstruction technique is called diffraction tomography. While many implementations of projection tomography are available today, there is no publicly available implementation of diffraction tomography so far. We present a Python library that implements the backpropagation algorithm for diffraction tomography in 3D. By establishing benchmarks based on finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) simulations, we showcase the superiority of the backpropagation algorithm over the backprojection algorithm. Furthermore, we discuss how measurment parameters influence the reconstructed refractive index distribution and we also give insights into the applicability of diffraction tomography to biological cells. Conclusion: The present software library contains a robust implementation of the backpropagation algorithm. The algorithm is ideally suited for the application to biological cells. Furthermore, the implementation is a drop-in replacement for the classical backprojection algorithm and is made available to the large user community of the Python programming language. 
Prediction models are used in clinical research to develop rules that can be used to accurately predict the outcome of the patients based on some of their characteristics. They represent a valuable tool in the decision making process of clinicians and health policy makers, as they enable them to estimate the probability that patients have or will develop a disease, will respond to a treatment, or that their disease will recur. The interest devoted to prediction models in the biomedical community has been growing in the last few years. Often the data used to develop the prediction models are class-imbalanced as only few patients experience the event (and therefore belong to minority class). Prediction models developed using class-imbalanced data tend to achieve sub-optimal predictive accuracy in the minority class. This problem can be diminished by using sampling techniques aimed at balancing the class distribution. These techniques include under- and oversampling, where a fraction of the majority class samples are retained in the analysis or new samples from the minority class are generated. The correct assessment of how the prediction model is likely to perform on independent data is of crucial importance; in the absence of an independent data set, cross-validation is normally used. While the importance of correct cross-validation is well documented in the biomedical literature, the challenges posed by the joint use of sampling techniques and cross-validation have not been addressed. We show that care must be taken to ensure that cross-validation is performed correctly on sampled data, and that the risk of overestimating the predictive accuracy is greater when oversampling techniques are used. Examples based on the re-analysis of real datasets and simulation studies are provided. We identify some results from the biomedical literature where the incorrect cross-validation was performed, where we expect that the performance of oversampling techniques was heavily overestimated. 
Predicting drug side effects is an important topic in the drug discovery. Although several machine learning methods have been proposed to predict side effects, there is still space for improvements. Firstly, the side effect prediction is a multi-label learning task, and we can adopt the multi-label learning techniques for it. Secondly, drug-related features are associated with side effects, and feature dimensions have specific biological meanings. Recognizing critical dimensions and reducing irrelevant dimensions may help to reveal the causes of side effects. Methods: In this paper, we propose a novel method ‘feature selection-based multi-label k-nearest neighbor method’ (FS-MLKNN), which can simultaneously determine critical feature dimensions and construct high-accuracy multi-label prediction models. Computational experiments demonstrate that FS-MLKNN leads to good performances as well as explainable results. To achieve better performances, we further develop the ensemble learning model by integrating individual feature-based FS-MLKNN models. When compared with other state-of-the-art methods, the ensemble method produces better performances on benchmark datasets. In conclusion, FS-MLKNN and the ensemble method are promising tools for the side effect prediction. The source code and datasets are available in the Additional file 1. 
Time-lapse analysis of cellular images is an important and growing need in biology. Algorithms for cell tracking are widely available; what researchers have been missing is a single open-source software package to visualize standard tracking output (from software like CellProfiler) in a way that allows convenient assessment of track quality, especially for researchers tuning tracking parameters for high-content time-lapse experiments. This makes quality assessment and algorithm adjustment a substantial challenge, particularly when dealing with hundreds of time-lapse movies collected in a high-throughput manner. We present CellProfiler Tracer, a free and open-source tool that complements the object tracking functionality of the CellProfiler biological image analysis package. Tracer allows multi-parametric morphological data to be visualized on object tracks, providing visualizations that have already been validated within the scientific community for time-lapse experiments, and combining them with simple graph-based measures for highlighting possible tracking artifacts. CellProfiler Tracer is a useful, free tool for inspection and quality control of object tracking data, available from  
Inferring gene networks from high-throughput data constitutes an important step in the discovery of relevant regulatory relationships in organism cells. Despite the large number of available Gene Regulatory Network inference methods, the problem remains challenging: the underdetermination in the space of possible solutions requires additional constraints that incorporate a priori information on gene interactions. Methods: Weighting all possible pairwise gene relationships by a probability of edge presence, we formulate the regulatory network inference as a discrete variational problem on graphs. We enforce biologically plausible coupling between groups and types of genes by minimizing an edge labeling functional coding for a priori structures. The optimization is carried out with Graph cuts, an approach popular in image processing and computer vision. We compare the inferred regulatory networks to results achieved by the mutual-information-based Context Likelihood of Relatedness (CLR) method and by the state-of-the-art GENIE3, winner of the DREAM4 multifactorial challenge. Our BRANE Cut approach infers more accurately the five DREAM4 in silico networks (with improvements from 6 % to 11 %). On a real Escherichia coli compendium, an improvement of 11.8 % compared to CLR and 3 % compared to GENIE3 is obtained in terms of Area Under Precision-Recall curve. Up to 48 additional verified interactions are obtained over GENIE3 for a given precision. On this dataset involving 4345 genes, our method achieves a performance similar to that of GENIE3, while being more than seven times faster. The BRANE Cut code is available at: -syscom.univ-mlv.fr/~pirayre/Codes-GRN-BRANE-cut.html. BRANE Cut is a weighted graph thresholding method. Using biologically sound penalties and data-driven parameters, it improves three state-of-the art GRN inference methods. It is applicable as a generic network inference post-processing, due to its computational efficiency. 
Some of the current software tools for comparative metagenomics provide ecologists with the ability to investigate and explore bacterial communities using α– & β–diversity. Feature subset selection – a sub-field of machine learning – can also provide a unique insight into the differences between metagenomic or 16S phenotypes. In particular, feature subset selection methods can obtain the operational taxonomic units (OTUs), or functional features, that have a high-level of influence on the condition being studied. For example, in a previous study we have used information-theoretic feature selection to understand the differences between protein family abundances that best discriminate between age groups in the human gut microbiome. We have developed a new Python command line tool, which is compatible with the widely adopted BIOM format, for microbial ecologists that implements information-theoretic subset selection methods for biological data formats. We demonstrate the software tools capabilities on publicly available datasets. We have made the software implementation of Fizzy available to the public under the GNU GPL license. The standalone implementation can be found at 
The field of metagenomics (study of genetic material recovered directly from an environment) has grown rapidly, with many bioinformatics analysis methods being developed. To ensure appropriate use of such methods, robust comparative evaluation of their accuracy and features is needed. For taxonomic classification of sequence reads, such evaluation should include use of clade exclusion, which better evaluates a method’s accuracy when identical sequences are not present in any reference database, as is common in metagenomic analysis. To date, relatively small evaluations have been performed, with evaluation approaches like clade exclusion limited to assessment of new methods by the authors of the given method. What is needed is a rigorous, independent comparison between multiple major methods, using the same in silico and in vitro test datasets, with and without approaches like clade exclusion, to better characterize accuracy under different conditions. An overview of the features of 38 bioinformatics methods is provided, evaluating accuracy with a focus on 11 programs that have reference databases that can be modified and therefore most robustly evaluated with clade exclusion. Taxonomic classification of sequence reads was evaluated using both in silico and in vitro mock bacterial communities. Clade exclusion was used at taxonomic levels from species to class—identifying how well methods perform in progressively more difficult scenarios. A wide range of variability was found in the sensitivity, precision, overall accuracy, and computational demand for the programs evaluated. In experiments where distilled water was spiked with only 11 bacterial species, frequently dozens to hundreds of species were falsely predicted by the most popular programs. The different features of each method (forces predictions or not, etc.) are summarized, and additional analysis considerations discussed. The accuracy of shotgun metagenomics classification methods varies widely. No one program clearly outperformed others in all evaluation scenarios; rather, the results illustrate the strengths of different methods for different purposes. Researchers must appreciate method differences, choosing the program best suited for their particular analysis to avoid very misleading results. Use of standardized datasets for method comparisons is encouraged, as is use of mock microbial community controls suitable for a particular metagenomic analysis. 
Over the last decade, next generation sequencing (NGS) has become widely available, and is now the sequencing technology of choice for most researchers. Nonetheless, NGS presents a challenge for the evolutionary biologists who wish to estimate evolutionary genetic parameters from a mixed sample of unlabelled or untagged individuals, especially when the reconstruction of full length haplotypes can be unreliable. We propose two novel approaches, least squares estimation (LS) and Approximate Bayesian Computation Markov chain Monte Carlo estimation (ABC-MCMC), to infer evolutionary genetic parameters from a collection of short-read sequences obtained from a mixed sample of anonymous DNA using the frequencies of nucleotides at each site only without reconstructing the full-length alignment nor the phylogeny. We used simulations to evaluate the performance of these algorithms, and our results demonstrate that LS performs poorly because bootstrap 95 % Confidence Intervals (CIs) tend to under- or over-estimate the true values of the parameters. In contrast, ABC-MCMC 95 % Highest Posterior Density (HPD) intervals recovered from ABC-MCMC enclosed the true parameter values with a rate approximately equivalent to that obtained using BEAST, a program that implements a Bayesian MCMC estimation of evolutionary parameters using full-length sequences. Because there is a loss of information with the use of sitewise nucleotide frequencies alone, the ABC-MCMC 95 % HPDs are larger than those obtained by BEAST. Conclusion: We propose two novel algorithms to estimate evolutionary genetic parameters based on the proportion of each nucleotide. The LS method cannot be recommended as a standalone method for evolutionary parameter estimation. On the other hand, parameters recovered by ABC-MCMC are comparable to those obtained using BEAST, but with larger 95 % HPDs. One major advantage of ABC-MCMC is that computational time scales linearly with the number of short-read sequences, and is independent of the number of full-length sequences in the original data. This allows us to perform the analysis on NGS datasets with large numbers of short read fragments. The source code for ABC-MCMC is available at -ABC.
Network component analysis (NCA) became a popular tool to understand complex regulatory networks. The method uses high-throughput gene expression data and a priori topology to reconstruct transcription factor activity profiles. Current NCA algorithms are constrained by several conditions posed on the network topology, to guarantee unique reconstruction (termed compliancy). However, the restrictions these conditions pose are not necessarily true from biological perspective and they force network size reduction, pruning potentially important components. To address this, we developed a novel, Iterative Sub-Network Component Analysis (ISNCA) for reconstructing networks at any size. By dividing the initial network into smaller, compliant subnetworks, the algorithm first predicts the reconstruction of each subntework using standard NCA algorithms. It then subtracts from the reconstruction the contribution of the shared components from the other subnetwork. We tested the ISNCA on real, large datasets using various NCA algorithms. The size of the networks we tested and the accuracy of the reconstruction increased significantly. Importantly, FOXA1, ATF2, ATF3 and many other known key regulators in breast cancer could not be incorporated by any NCA algorithm because of the necessary conditions. However, their temporal activities could be reconstructed by our algorithm, and therefore their involvement in breast cancer could be analyzed. Our framework enables reconstruction of large gene expression data networks, without reducing their size or pruning potentially important components, and at the same time rendering the results more biological plausible. Our ISNCA method is not only suitable for prediction of key regulators in cancer studies, but it can be applied to any high-throughput gene expression data. 
RNA-seq is a powerful tool for measuring transcriptomes, especially for identifying differentially expressed genes or transcripts (DEGs) between sample groups. A number of methods have been developed for this task, and several evaluation studies have also been reported. However, those evaluations so far have been restricted to two-group comparisons. Accumulations of comparative studies for multi-group data are also desired. Methods: We compare 12 pipelines available in nine R packages for detecting differential expressions (DE) from multi-group RNA-seq count data, focusing on three-group data with or without replicates. We evaluate those pipelines on the basis of both simulation data and real count data. As a result, the pipelines in the TCC package performed comparably to or better than other pipelines under various simulation scenarios. TCC implements a multi-step normalization strategy (called DEGES) that internally uses functions provided by other representative packages (edgeR, DESeq2, and so on). We found considerably different numbers of identified DEGs (18.5 ~ 45.7 % of all genes) among the pipelines for the same real dataset but similar distributions of the classified expression patterns. We also found that DE results can roughly be estimated by the hierarchical dendrogram of sample clustering for the raw count data. Conclusion: We confirmed the DEGES-based pipelines implemented in TCC performed well in a three-group comparison as well as a two-group comparison. We recommend using the DEGES-based pipeline that internally uses edgeR (here called the EEE-E pipeline) for count data with replicates (especially for small sample sizes). For data without replicates, the DEGES-based pipeline with DESeq2 (called SSS-S) can be recommended. 
MiRNAs play a critical role in the response of plants to abiotic and biotic stress. However, the functions of most plant miRNAs remain unknown. Inferring these functions from miRNA functional similarity would thus be useful. This study proposes a new method, called PPImiRFS, for inferring miRNA functional similarity. The functional similarity of miRNAs was inferred from the functional similarity of their target gene sets. A protein-protein interaction network with semantic similarity weights of edges generated using Gene Ontology terms was constructed to infer the functional similarity between two target genes that belong to two different miRNAs, and the score for functional similarity was calculated using the weighted shortest path for the two target genes through the whole network. The experimental results showed that the proposed method was more effective and reliable than previous methods (miRFunSim and GOSemSim) applied to Arabidopsis thaliana. Additionally, miRNAs responding to the same type of stress had higher functional similarity than miRNAs responding to different types of stress. For the first time, a protein-protein interaction network with semantic similarity weights generated using Gene Ontology terms was employed to calculate the functional similarity of plant miRNAs. A novel method based on calculating the weighted shortest path between two target genes was introduced. 
The central element of each enzyme is the catalytic site, which commonly catalyzes a single biochemical reaction with high specificity. It was unclear to us how often sites that catalyze the same or highly similar reactions evolved on different, i. e. non-homologous protein folds and how similar their 3D poses are. Both similarities are key criteria for assessing the usability of pose comparison for function prediction. We have analyzed the SCOP database on the superfamily level in order to estimate the number of non-homologous enzymes possessing the same function according to their EC number. 89 % of the 873 substrate-specific functions (four digit EC number) assigned to mono-functional, single-domain enzymes were only found in one superfamily. For a reaction-specific grouping (three digit EC number), this value dropped to 35 %, indicating that in approximately 65 % of all enzymes the same function evolved in two or more non-homologous proteins.For these isofunctional enzymes, structural similarity of the catalytic sites may help to predict function, because neither high sequence similarity nor identical folds are required for a comparison. To assess the specificity of catalytic 3D poses, we compiled the redundancy-free set ENZ_SITES, which comprises 695 sites, whose composition and function are well-defined. We compared their poses with the help of the program Superpose3D and determined classification performance. If the sites were from different superfamilies, the number of true and false positive predictions was similarly high, both for a coarse and a detailed grouping of enzyme function. Moreover, classification performance did not improve drastically, if we additionally used homologous sites to predict function. For a large number of enzymatic functions, dissimilar sites evolved that catalyze the same reaction and it is the individual substrate that determines the arrangement of the catalytic site and its local environment. These substrate-specific requirements turn the comparison of catalytic residues into a weak classifier for the prediction of enzyme function. 
Our publication of the BitTorious portal [1] demonstrated the ability to create a privatized distributed data warehouse of sufficient magnitude for real-world bioinformatics studies using minimal changes to the standard BitTorrent tracker protocol. In this second phase, we release a new server-side specification to accept anonymous philantropic storage donations by the general public, wherein a small portion of each user’s local disk may be used for archival of scientific data. We have implementated the server-side announcement and control portions of this BitTorrent extension into v3.0.0 of the BitTorious portal, upon which compatible clients may be built. Automated test cases for the BitTorious Volunteer extensions have been added to the portal’s v3.0.0 release, supporting validation of the “peer affinity” concept and announcement protocol introduced by this specification. Additionally, a separate reference implementation of affinity calculation has been provided in C++ for informaticians wishing to integrate into libtorrent-based projects. The BitTorrent “affinity” extensions as provided in the BitTorious portal reference implementation allow data publishers to crowdsource the extreme storage prerequisites for research in “big data” fields. With sufficient awareness and adoption of BitTorious Volunteer-based clients by the general public, the BitTorious portal may be able to provide peta-scale storage resources to the scientific community at relatively insignificant financial cost.
In the context of infectious disease, sequence clustering can be used to provide important insights into the dynamics of transmission. Cluster analysis is usually performed using a phylogenetic approach whereby clusters are assigned on the basis of sufficiently small genetic distances and high bootstrap support (or posterior probabilities). The computational burden involved in this phylogenetic threshold approach is a major drawback, especially when a large number of sequences are being considered. In addition, this method requires a skilled user to specify the appropriate threshold values which may vary widely depending on the application. This paper presents the Gap Procedure, a distance-based clustering algorithm for the classification of DNA sequences sampled from individuals infected with the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Our heuristic algorithm bypasses the need for phylogenetic reconstruction, thereby supporting the quick analysis of large genetic data sets. Moreover, this fully automated procedure relies on data-driven gaps in sorted pairwise distances to infer clusters, thus no user-specified threshold values are required. The clustering results obtained by the Gap Procedure on both real and simulated data, closely agree with those found using the threshold approach, while only requiring a fraction of the time to complete the analysis. Apart from the dramatic gains in computational time, the Gap Procedure is highly effective in finding distinct groups of genetically similar sequences and obviates the need for subjective user-specified values. The clusters of genetically similar sequences returned by this procedure can be used to detect patterns in HIV-1 transmission and thereby aid in the prevention, treatment and containment of the disease. 
Bacterial operons are considerably more complex than what were thought. At least their components are dynamically rather than statically defined as previously assumed. Here we present a computational study of the landscape of the transcriptional units (TUs) of E. coli K12, revealed by the available genomic and transcriptomic data, providing new understanding about the complexity of TUs as a whole encoded in the genome of E. coli K12. Results and conclusion: Our main findings include that (i) different TUs may overlap with each other by sharing common genes, giving rise to clusters of overlapped TUs (TUCs) along the genomic sequence; (ii) the intergenic regions in front of the first gene of each TU tend to have more conserved sequence motifs than those of the other genes inside the TU, suggesting that TUs each have their own promoters; (iii) the terminators associated with the 3’ ends of TUCs tend to be Rho-independent terminators, substantially more often than terminators of TUs that end inside a TUC; and (iv) the functional relatedness of adjacent gene pairs in individual TUs is higher than those in TUCs, suggesting that individual TUs are more basic functional units than TUCs. 
Small RNA-sequencing has revealed the diversity and high abundance of small RNAs derived from tRNAs, referred to as tRNA-derived RNAs. However, at present, there is no standardized nomenclature and there are no methods for accurate annotation and quantification of these small RNAs. tRNA-derived RNAs have unique features that limit the utility of conventional alignment tools and quantification methods. We describe here the challenges of mapping, naming, and quantifying tRNA-derived RNAs and present a novel method that addresses them, called tDRmapper. We then use tDRmapper to perform a comparative analysis of tRNA-derived RNA profiles across different human cell types and diseases. We found that (1) tRNA-derived RNA profiles can differ dramatically across different cell types and disease states, (2) that positions and types of chemical modifications of tRNA-derived RNAs vary by cell type and disease, and (3) that entirely different tRNA-derived RNA species can be produced from the same parental tRNA depending on the cell type. Conclusion: tDRmappernot only provides a standardized nomenclature and quantification scheme, but also includes graphical visualization that facilitates the discovery of novel tRNA and tRNA-derived RNA biology.
The intracellular environment is a complex and crowded medium where the diffusion of proteins, metabolites and other molecules can be decreased. One of the most popular methodologies for the simulation of diffusion in crowding systems is the Monte Carlo algorithm (MC) which tracks the movement of each particle. This can, however, be computationally expensive for a system comprising a large number of molecules. On the other hand, the Lattice Boltzmann Method (LBM) tracks the movement of collections of molecules, which represents significant savings in computational time. Nevertheless in the classical manifestation of such scheme the crowding conditions are neglected. Methods: In this paper we use Scaled Particle Theory (SPT) to approximate the probability to find free space for the displacement of hard-disk molecules and in this way to incorporate the crowding effect to the LBM. This new methodology which couples SPT and LBM is validated using a kinetic Monte Carlo (kMC) algorithm, which is used here as our "computational experiment". The results indicate that LBM over-predicts the diffusion in 2D crowded systems, while the proposed coupled SPT-LBM predicts the same behaviour as the kinetic Monte Carlo (kMC) algorithm but with a significantly reduced computational effort. Despite the fact that small deviations between the two methods were observed, in part due to the mesoscopic and microscopic nature of each method, respectively, the agreement was satisfactory both from a qualitative and a quantitative point of view. A crowding-adaptation to LBM has been developed using SPT, allowing fast simulations of diffusion-systems of different size hard-disk molecules in two-dimensional space. This methodology takes into account crowding conditions; not only the space fraction occupied by the crowder molecules but also the influence of the size of the crowder which can affect the displacement of molecules across the lattice system. 
Supplementary material is a ubiquitous feature of scientific articles, particularly in journals that limit the length of the articles. While the judicious use of supplementary material can improve the readability of scientific articles, its excessive use threatens the scientific review process and by extension the integrity of the scientific literature. In many cases supplementary material today is so extensive that it is reviewed superficially or not at all. Furthermore, citations buried within supplementary files rob other scientists of recognition of their contribution to the scientific record. These issues are exacerbated by the lack of guidance on the use of supplementary information from the journals to authors and reviewers. We propose that the removal of artificial length restrictions plus the use of interactive features made possible by modern electronic media can help to alleviate these problems. Many journals, in fact, have already removed article length limitations (as is the case for BMC Bioinformatics and other BioMed Central journals). We hope that the issues raised in our article will encourage publishers and scientists to work together towards a better use of supplementary information in scientific publishing.
Identification of biological specimens is a requirement for a range of applications. Reference-free methods analyse unprocessed sequencing data without relying on prior knowledge, but generally do not scale to arbitrarily large genomes and arbitrarily large phylogenetic distances. We present Cnidaria, a practical tool for clustering genomic and transcriptomic data with no limitation on genome size or phylogenetic distances. We successfully simultaneously clustered 169 genomic and transcriptomic datasets from 4 kingdoms, achieving 100 % identification accuracy at supra-species level and 78 % accuracy at the species level. Conclusion: CNIDARIA allows for fast, resource-efficient comparison and identification of both raw and assembled genome and transcriptome data. This can help answer both fundamental (e.g. in phylogeny, ecological diversity analysis) and practical questions (e.g. sequencing quality control, primer design). 
Modern methods for mining biomolecular interactions from literature typically make predictions based solely on the immediate textual context, in effect a single sentence. No prior work has been published on extending this context to the information automatically gathered from the whole biomedical literature. Thus, our motivation for this study is to explore whether mutually supporting evidence, aggregated across several documents can be utilized to improve the performance of the state-of-the-art event extraction systems.In this paper, we describe our participation in the latest BioNLP Shared Task using the large-scale text mining resource EVEX. We participated in the Genia Event Extraction (GE) and Gene Regulation Network (GRN) tasks with two separate systems. In the GE task, we implemented a re-ranking approach to improve the precision of an existing event extraction system, incorporating features from the EVEX resource. In the GRN task, our system relied solely on the EVEX resource and utilized a rule-based conversion algorithm between the EVEX and GRN formats. In the GE task, our re-ranking approach led to a modest performance increase and resulted in the first rank of the official Shared Task results with 50.97% F-score. Additionally, in this paper we explore and evaluate the usage of distributed vector representations for this challenge.In the GRN task, we ranked fifth in the official results with a strict/relaxed SER score of 0.92/0.81 respectively. To try and improve upon these results, we have implemented a novel machine learning based conversion system and benchmarked its performance against the original rule-based system. For the GRN task, we were able to produce a gene regulatory network from the EVEX data, warranting the use of such generic large-scale text mining data in network biology settings. A detailed performance and error analysis provides more insight into the relatively low recall rates.In the GE task we demonstrate that both the re-ranking approach and the word vectors can provide slight performance improvement. A manual evaluation of the re-ranking results pinpoints some of the challenges faced in applying large-scale text mining knowledge to event extraction.
In BioNLP-ST 2013: We participated in the BioNLP 2013 shared tasks on event extraction. Our extraction method is based on the search for an approximate subgraph isomorphism between key context dependencies of events and graphs of input sentences. Our system was able to address both the GENIA (GE) task focusing on 13 molecular biology related event types and the Cancer Genetics (CG) task targeting a challenging group of 40 cancer biology related event types with varying arguments concerning 18 kinds of biological entities. In addition to adapting our system to the two tasks, we also attempted to integrate semantics into the graph matching scheme using a distributional similarity model for more events, and evaluated the event extraction impact of using paths of all possible lengths as key context dependencies beyond using only the shortest paths in our system. We achieved a 46.38% F-score in the CG task (ranking 3rd) and a 48.93% F-score in the GE task (ranking 4th). After BioNLP-ST 2013: We explored three ways to further extend our event extraction system in our previously published work: (1) We allow non-essential nodes to be skipped, and incorporated a node skipping penalty into the subgraph distance function of our approximate subgraph matching algorithm. (2) Instead of assigning a unified subgraph distance threshold to all patterns of an event type, we learned a customized threshold for each pattern. (3) We implemented the well-known Empirical Risk Minimization (ERM) principle to optimize the event pattern set by balancing prediction errors on training data against regularization. When evaluated on the official GE task test data, these extensions help to improve the extraction precision from 62% to 65%. However, the overall F-score stays equivalent to the previous performance due to a 1% drop in recall.
The Turku Event Extraction System (TEES) is a text mining program developed for the extraction of events, complex biomedical relationships, from scientific literature. Based on a graph-generation approach, the system detects events with the use of a rich feature set built via dependency parsing. The TEES system has achieved record performance in several of the shared tasks of its domain, and continues to be used in a variety of biomedical text mining tasks. The TEES system was quickly adapted to the BioNLP'13 Shared Task in order to provide a public baseline for derived systems. An automated approach was developed for learning the underlying annotation rules of event type, allowing immediate adaptation to the various subtasks, and leading to a first place in four out of eight tasks. The system for the automated learning of annotation rules is further enhanced in this paper to the point of requiring no manual adaptation to any of the BioNLP'13 tasks. Further, the scikit-learn machine learning library is integrated into the system, bringing a wide variety of machine learning methods usable with TEES in addition to the default SVM. A scikit-learn ensemble method is also used to analyze the importances of the features in the TEES feature sets. The TEES system was introduced for the BioNLP'09 Shared Task and has since then demonstrated good performance in several other shared tasks. By applying the current TEES 2.2 system to multiple corpora from these past shared tasks an overarching analysis of the most promising methods and possible pitfalls in the evolving field of biomedical event extraction are presented.
Relation extraction is an essential procedure in literature mining. It focuses on extracting semantic relations between parts of text, called mentions. Biomedical literature includes an enormous amount of textual descriptions of biological entities, their interactions and results of related experiments. To extract them in an explicit, computer readable format, these relations were at first extracted manually from databases. Manual curation was later replaced with automatic or semi-automatic tools with natural language processing capabilities. The current challenge is the development of information extraction procedures that can directly infer more complex relational structures, such as gene regulatory networks. We develop a computational approach for extraction of gene regulatory networks from textual data. Our method is designed as a sieve-based system and uses linear-chain conditional random fields and rules for relation extraction. With this method we successfully extracted the sporulation gene regulation network in the bacterium Bacillus subtilis for the information extraction challenge at the BioNLP 2013 conference. To enable extraction of distant relations using first-order models, we transform the data into skip-mention sequences. We infer multiple models, each of which is able to extract different relationship types. Following the shared task, we conducted additional analysis using different system settings that resulted in reducing the reconstruction error of bacterial sporulation network from 0.73 to 0.68, measured as the slot error rate between the predicted and the reference network. We observe that all relation extraction sieves contribute to the predictive performance of the proposed approach. Also, features constructed by considering mention words and their prefixes and suffixes are the most important features for higher accuracy of extraction. Analysis of distances between different mention types in the text shows that our choice of transforming data into skip-mention sequences is appropriate for detecting relations between distant mentions. Linear-chain conditional random fields, along with appropriate data transformations, can be efficiently used to extract relations. The sieve-based architecture simplifies the system as new sieves can be easily added or removed and each sieve can utilize the results of previous ones. Furthermore, sieves with conditional random fields can be trained on arbitrary text data and hence are applicable to broad range of relation extraction tasks and data domains.
Numerous tools have been developed to predict the fitness effects (i.e., neutral, deleterious, or beneficial) of genetic variants on corresponding proteins. However, prediction in terms of whether a variant causes the variant bearing protein to lose the original function or gain new function is also needed for better understanding of how the variant contributes to disease/cancer. To address this problem, the present work introduces and computationally defines four types of functional outcome of a variant: gain, loss, switch, and conservation of function. The deployment of multiple hidden Markov models is proposed to computationally classify mutations by the four functional impact types. The functional outcome is predicted for over a hundred thyroid stimulating hormone receptor (TSHR) mutations, as well as cancer related mutations in oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes. The results show that the proposed computational method is effective in fine grained prediction of the functional outcome of a mutation, and can be used to help elucidate the molecular mechanism of disease/cancer causing mutations. The program is freely available at  Conclusion: This work is the first to computationally define and predict functional impact of mutations, loss, switch, gain, or conservation of function. These fine grained predictions can be especially useful for identifying mutations that cause or are linked to cancer. 
Pathway analysis methods, in which differentially expressed genes are mapped to databases of reference pathways and relative enrichment is assessed, help investigators to propose biologically relevant hypotheses. The last generation of pathway analysis methods takes into account the topological structure of a pathway, which helps to increase both specificity and sensitivity of the findings. Simultaneously, the RNA-Seq technology is gaining popularity and becomes widely used for gene expression profiling. Unfortunately, majority of topological pathway analysis methods remains without implementation and if an implementation exists, it is limited in various factors. We developed a new R/Bioconductor package ToPASeq offering uniform interface to seven distinct topology-based pathway analysis methods, of which three we implemented de-novo and four were adjusted from existing implementations. Apart this, ToPASeq offers a set of tailored visualization functions and functions for importing and manipulating pathways and their topologies, facilitating the application of the methods on different species. The package can be used to compare the differential expression of pathways between two conditions on both gene expression microarray and RNA-Seq data. The package is written in R and is available from Bioconductor 3.2 using AGPL-3 license. Conclusion: ToPASeq is a novel package that offers seven distinct methods for topology-based pathway analysis, which are easily applicable on microarray as well as RNA-Seq data, both in human and other species. At the same time, it provides specific tools for visualization of the results. 
ChIP-seq experiments are widely used to detect and study DNA-protein interactions, such as transcription factor binding and chromatin modifications. However, downstream analysis of ChIP-seq data is currently restricted to the evaluation of signal intensity and the detection of enriched regions (peaks) in the genome. Other features of peak shape are almost always neglected, despite the remarkable differences shown by ChIP-seq for different proteins, as well as by distinct regions in a single experiment. We hypothesize that statistically significant differences in peak shape might have a functional role and a biological meaning. Thus, we design five indices able to summarize peak shapes and we employ multivariate clustering techniques to divide peaks into groups according to both their complexity and the intensity of their coverage function. In addition, our novel analysis pipeline employs a range of statistical and bioinformatics techniques to relate the obtained peak shapes to several independent genomic datasets, including other genome-wide protein-DNA maps and gene expression experiments. To clarify the meaning of peak shape, we apply our methodology to the study of the erythroid transcription factor GATA-1 in K562 cell line and in megakaryocytes. Our study demonstrates that ChIP-seq profiles include information regarding the binding of other proteins beside the one used for precipitation. In particular, peak shape provides new insights into cooperative transcriptional regulation and is correlated to gene expression. 
Recently, rapid improvements in technology and decrease in sequencing costs have made RNA-Seq a widely used technique to quantify gene expression levels. Various normalization approaches have been proposed, owing to the importance of normalization in the analysis of RNA-Seq data. A comparison of recently proposed normalization methods is required to generate suitable guidelines for the selection of the most appropriate approach for future experiments. In this paper, we compared eight non-abundance (RC, UQ, Med, TMM, DESeq, Q, RPKM, and ERPKM) and two abundance estimation normalization methods (RSEM and Sailfish). The experiments were based on real Illumina high-throughput RNA-Seq of 35- and 76-nucleotide sequences produced in the MAQC project and simulation reads. Reads were mapped with human genome obtained from UCSC Genome Browser Database. For precise evaluation, we investigated Spearman correlation between the normalization results from RNA-Seq and MAQC qRT-PCR values for 996 genes. Based on this work, we showed that out of the eight non-abundance estimation normalization methods, RC, UQ, Med, TMM, DESeq, and Q gave similar normalization results for all data sets. For RNA-Seq of a 35-nucleotide sequence, RPKM showed the highest correlation results, but for RNA-Seq of a 76-nucleotide sequence, least correlation was observed than the other methods. ERPKM did not improve results than RPKM. Between two abundance estimation normalization methods, for RNA-Seq of a 35-nucleotide sequence, higher correlation was obtained with Sailfish than that with RSEM, which was better than without using abundance estimation methods. However, for RNA-Seq of a 76-nucleotide sequence, the results achieved by RSEM were similar to without applying abundance estimation methods, and were much better than with Sailfish. Furthermore, we found that adding a poly-A tail increased alignment numbers, but did not improve normalization results. Conclusion: Spearman correlation analysis revealed that RC, UQ, Med, TMM, DESeq, and Q did not noticeably improve gene expression normalization, regardless of read length. Other normalization methods were more efficient when alignment accuracy was low; Sailfish with RPKM gave the best normalization results. When alignment accuracy was high, RC was sufficient for gene expression calculation. And we suggest ignoring poly-A tail during differential gene expression analysis. 
A rapidly growing amount of knowledge about signaling and gene regulatory networks is available in databases such as KEGG, Reactome, or RegulonDB. There is an increasing need to relate this knowledge to high-throughput data in order to (in)validate network topologies or to decide which interactions are present or inactive in a given cell type under a particular environmental condition. Interaction graphs provide a suitable representation of cellular networks with information flows and methods based on sign consistency approaches have been shown to be valuable tools to (i) predict qualitative responses, (ii) to test the consistency of network topologies and experimental data, and (iii) to apply repair operations to the network model suggesting missing or wrong interactions. We present a framework to unify different notions of sign consistency and propose a refined method for data discretization that considers uncertainties in experimental profiles. We furthermore introduce a new constraint to filter undesired model behaviors induced by positive feedback loops. Finally, we generalize the way predictions can be made by the sign consistency approach. In particular, we distinguish strong predictions (e.g. increase of a node level) and weak predictions (e.g., node level increases or remains unchanged) enlarging the overall predictive power of the approach. We then demonstrate the applicability of our framework by confronting a large-scale gene regulatory network model of Escherichia coli with high-throughput transcriptomic measurements. Conclusion: Overall, our work enhances the flexibility and power of the sign consistency approach for the prediction of the behavior of signaling and gene regulatory networks and, more generally, for the validation and inference of these networks 
Set-level classification of gene expression data has received significant attention recently. In this setting, high-dimensional vectors of features corresponding to genes are converted into lower-dimensional vectors of features corresponding to biologically interpretable gene sets. The dimensionality reduction brings the promise of a decreased risk of overfitting, potentially resulting in improved accuracy of the learned classifiers. However, recent empirical research has not confirmed this expectation. Here we hypothesize that the reported unfavorable classification results in the set-level framework were due to the adoption of unsuitable gene sets defined typically on the basis of the Gene ontology and the KEGG database of metabolic networks. We explore an alternative approach to defining gene sets, based on regulatory interactions, which we expect to collect genes with more correlated expression. We hypothesize that such more correlated gene sets will enable to learn more accurate classifiers. Methods: We define two families of gene sets using information on regulatory interactions, and evaluate them on phenotype-classification tasks using public prokaryotic gene expression data sets. From each of the two gene-set families, we first select the best-performing subtype. The two selected subtypes are then evaluated on independent (testing) data sets against state-of-the-art gene sets and against the conventional gene-level approach. The novel gene sets are indeed more correlated than the conventional ones, and lead to significantly more accurate classifiers. The novel gene sets are indeed more correlated than the conventional ones, and lead to significantly more accurate classifiers. Conclusion: Novel gene sets defined on the basis of regulatory interactions improve set-level classification of gene expression data. The experimental scripts and other material needed to reproduce the experiments are available at  
Functional annotation of genes and gene products is a major challenge in the post-genomic era. Nowadays, gene function curation is largely based on manual assignment of Gene Ontology (GO) annotations to genes by using published literature. The annotation task is extremely time-consuming, therefore there is an increasing interest in automated tools that can assist human experts. Here we introduce GOTA, a GO term annotator for biomedical literature. The proposed approach makes use only of information that is readily available from public repositories and it is easily expandable to handle novel sources of information. We assess the classification capabilities of GOTA on a large benchmark set of publications. The overall performances are encouraging in comparison to the state of the art in multi-label classification over large taxonomies. Furthermore, the experimental tests provide some interesting insights into the potential improvement of automated annotation tools. GOTA implements a flexible and expandable model for GO annotation of biomedical literature. The current version of the GOTA tool is freely available at  
Orientation and the degree of isotropy are important in many biological systems such as the sarcomeres of cardiomyocytes and other fibrillar structures of the cytoskeleton. Image based analysis of such structures is often limited to qualitative evaluation by human experts, hampering the throughput, repeatability and reliability of the analyses. Software tools are not readily available for this purpose and the existing methods typically rely at least partly on manual operation. We developed CytoSpectre, an automated tool based on spectral analysis, allowing the quantification of orientation and also size distributions of structures in microscopy images. CytoSpectre utilizes the Fourier transform to estimate the power spectrum of an image and based on the spectrum, computes parameter values describing, among others, the mean orientation, isotropy and size of target structures. The analysis can be further tuned to focus on targets of particular size at cellular or subcellular scales. The software can be operated via a graphical user interface without any programming expertise. We analyzed the performance of CytoSpectre by extensive simulations using artificial images, by benchmarking against FibrilTool and by comparisons with manual measurements performed for real images by a panel of human experts. The software was found to be tolerant against noise and blurring and superior to FibrilTool when analyzing realistic targets with degraded image quality. The analysis of real images indicated general good agreement between computational and manual results while also revealing notable expert-to-expert variation. Moreover, the experiment showed that CytoSpectre can handle images obtained of different cell types using different microscopy techniques. Finally, we studied the effect of mechanical stretching on cardiomyocytes to demonstrate the software in an actual experiment and observed changes in cellular orientation in response to stretching. CytoSpectre, a versatile, easy-to-use software tool for spectral analysis of microscopy images was developed. The tool is compatible with most 2D images and can be used to analyze targets at different scales. We expect the tool to be useful in diverse applications dealing with structures whose orientation and size distributions are of interest. While designed for the biological field, the software could also be useful in non-biological applications. 
Reconstruction of neuron anatomy structure is a challenging and important task in neuroscience. However, few algorithms can automatically reconstruct the full structure well without manual assistance, making it essential to develop new methods for this task. Methods: This paper introduces a new pipeline for reconstructing neuron anatomy structure from 3-D microscopy image stacks. This pipeline is initialized with a set of seeds that were detected by our proposed Sliding Volume Filter (SVF), given a non-circular cross-section of a neuron cell. Then, an improved open curve snake model combined with a SVF external force is applied to trace the full skeleton of the neuron cell. A radius estimation method based on a 2D sliding band filter is developed to fit the real edge of the cross-section of the neuron cell. Finally, a surface reconstruction method based on non-parallel curve networks is used to generate the neuron cell surface to finish this pipeline. The proposed pipeline has been evaluated using publicly available datasets. The results show that the proposed method achieves promising results in some datasets from the DIgital reconstruction of Axonal and DEndritic Morphology (DIADEM) challenge and new BigNeuron project. Conclusion: The new pipeline works well in neuron tracing and reconstruction. It can achieve higher efficiency, stability and robustness in neuron skeleton tracing. Furthermore, the proposed radius estimation method and applied surface reconstruction method can obtain more accurate neuron anatomy structures. 
Amplicon re-sequencing based on the automated Sanger method remains popular for detection of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and insertion-deletion polymorphisms (InDels) for a spectrum of genetics applications. However, existing software tools for detecting intra-individual SNPs and InDels in direct amplicon sequencing of diploid samples are insufficient in analyzing single traces and their accuracy is still limited. We developed a novel computation tool, named DiSNPindel, to improve the detection of intra-individual SNPs and InDels in direct amplicon sequencing of a diploid. Neither reference sequence nor additional sample was required. Using two real datasets, we demonstrated the usefulness of DiSNPindel in its ability to improve largely the true SNP and InDel discovery rates and reduce largely the missed and false positive rates as compared with existing detection methods. The software DiSNPindel presented here provides an efficient tool for intra-individual SNP and InDel detection in diploid amplicon sequencing. It will also be useful for identification of DNA variations in expressed sequence tag (EST) re-sequencing. 
Metabolomics experiments often comprise large numbers of biological samples resulting in huge amounts of data. This data needs to be inspected for plausibility before data evaluation to detect putative sources of error e.g. retention time or mass accuracy shifts. Especially in liquid chromatography-high resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRMS) based metabolomics research, proper quality control checks (e.g. for precision, signal drifts or offsets) are crucial prerequisites to achieve reliable and comparable results within and across experimental measurement sequences. Software tools can support this process. The software tool QCScreen was developed to offer a quick and easy data quality check of LC-HRMS derived data. It allows a flexible investigation and comparison of basic quality-related parameters within user-defined target features and the possibility to automatically evaluate multiple sample types within or across different measurement sequences in a short time. It offers a user-friendly interface that allows an easy selection of processing steps and parameter settings. The generated results include a coloured overview plot of data quality across all analysed samples and targets and, in addition, detailed illustrations of the stability and precision of the chromatographic separation, the mass accuracy and the detector sensitivity. The use of QCScreen is demonstrated with experimental data from metabolomics experiments using selected standard compounds in pure solvent. The application of the software identified problematic features, samples and analytical parameters and suggested which data files or compounds required closer manual inspection. QCScreen is an open source software tool which provides a useful basis for assessing the suitability of LC-HRMS data prior to time consuming, detailed data processing and subsequent statistical analysis. It accepts the generic mzXML format and thus can be used with many different LC-HRMS platforms to process both multiple quality control sample types as well as experimental samples in one or more measurement sequences. 
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
Despite being hugely important in biological processes, allostery is poorly understood and no universal mechanism has been discovered. Allosteric drugs are a largely unexplored prospect with many potential advantages over orthosteric drugs. Computational methods to predict allosteric sites on proteins are needed to aid the discovery of allosteric drugs, as well as to advance our fundamental understanding of allostery. AlloPred, a novel method to predict allosteric pockets on proteins, was developed. AlloPred uses perturbation of normal modes alongside pocket descriptors in a machine learning approach that ranks the pockets on a protein. AlloPred ranked an allosteric pocket top for 23 out of 40 known allosteric proteins, showing comparable and complementary performance to two existing methods. In 28 of 40 cases an allosteric pocket was ranked first or second. The AlloPred web server, freely available at , allows visualisation and analysis of predictions. The source code and dataset information are also available from this site. Perturbation of normal modes can enhance our ability to predict allosteric sites on proteins. Computational methods such as AlloPred assist drug discovery efforts by suggesting sites on proteins for further experimental study.
The RCSB Protein Data Bank (PDB) provides public access to experimentally determined 3D-structures of biological macromolecules (proteins, peptides and nucleic acids). While various tools are available to explore the PDB, options to access the global structural diversity of the entire PDB and to perceive relationships between PDB structures remain very limited. Methods: A 136-dimensional atom pair 3D-fingerprint for proteins (3DP) counting categorized atom pairs at increasing through-space distances was designed to represent the molecular shape of PDB-entries. Nearest neighbor searches examples were reported exemplifying the ability of 3DP-similarity to identify closely related biomolecules from small peptides to enzyme and large multiprotein complexes such as virus particles. The principle component analysis was used to obtain the visualization of PDB in 3DP-space. The 3DP property space groups proteins and protein assemblies according to their 3D-shape similarity, yet shows exquisite ability to distinguish between closely related structures. An interactive website called PDB-Explorer is presented featuring a color-coded interactive map of PDB in 3DP-space. Each pixel of the map contains one or more PDB-entries which are directly visualized as ribbon diagrams when the pixel is selected. The PDB-Explorer website allows performing 3DP-nearest neighbor searches of any PDB-entry or of any structure uploaded as protein-type PDB file. All functionalities on the website are implemented in JavaScript in a platform-independent manner and draw data from a server that is updated daily with the latest PDB additions, ensuring complete and up-to-date coverage. The essentially instantaneous 3DP-similarity search with the PDB-Explorer provides results comparable to those of much slower 3D-alignment algorithms, and automatically clusters proteins from the same superfamilies in tight groups. Conclusion: A chemical space classification of PDB based on molecular shape was obtained using a new atom-pair 3D-fingerprint for proteins and implemented in a web-based database exploration tool comprising an interactive color-coded map of the PDB chemical space and a nearest neighbor search tool. The PDB-Explorer website is freely available at www.cheminfo.org/pdbexplorer and represents an unprecedented opportunity to interactively visualize and explore the structural diversity of the PDB. ᅟ: Graphical abstractᅟMaps of PDB in 3DP-space color-coded by heavy atom count and shape. 
The entire collection of genetic information resides within the chromosomes, which themselves reside within almost every cell nucleus of eukaryotic organisms. Each individual chromosome is found to have its own preferred three-dimensional (3D) structure independent of the other chromosomes. The structure of each chromosome plays vital roles in controlling certain genome operations, including gene interaction and gene regulation. As a result, knowing the structure of chromosomes assists in the understanding of how the genome functions. Fortunately, the 3D structure of chromosomes proves possible to construct through computational methods via contact data recorded from the chromosome. We developed a unique computational approach based on optimization procedures known as adaptation, simulated annealing, and genetic algorithm to construct 3D models of human chromosomes, using chromosomal contact data. Our models were evaluated using a percentage-based scoring function. Analysis of the scores of the final 3D models demonstrated their effective construction from our computational approach. Specifically, the models resulting from our approach yielded an average score of 80.41 %, with a high of 91 %, across models for all chromosomes of a normal human B-cell. Comparisons made with other methods affirmed the effectiveness of our strategy. Particularly, juxtaposition with models generated through the publicly available method Markov chain Monte Carlo 5C (MCMC5C) illustrated the outperformance of our approach, as seen through a higher average score for all chromosomes. Our methodology was further validated using two consistency checking techniques known as convergence testing and robustness checking, which both proved successful. The pursuit of constructing accurate 3D chromosomal structures is fueled by the benefits revealed by the findings as well as any possible future areas of study that arise. This motivation has led to the development of our computational methodology. The implementation of our approach proved effective in constructing 3D chromosome models and proved consistent with, and more effective than, some other methods thereby achieving our goal of creating a tool to help advance certain research efforts. The source code, test data, test results, and documentation of our method, Gen3D, are available at our sourceforge site at: 
Despite ongoing reductions in the cost of sequencing technologies, whole genome SNP genotype imputation is often used as an alternative for obtaining abundant SNP genotypes for genome wide association studies. Several existing genotype imputation methods can be efficient for this purpose, while achieving various levels of imputation accuracy. Recent empirical results have shown that the two-step imputation may improve accuracy by imputing the low density genotyped study animals to a medium density array first and then to the target density. We are interested in building a series of staircase arrays that lead the low density array to the high density array or even the whole genome, such that genotype imputation along these staircases can achieve the highest accuracy. For genotype imputation from a lower density to a higher density, we first show how to select untyped SNPs to construct a medium density array. Subsequently, we determine for each selected SNP those untyped SNPs to be imputed in the add-one two-step imputation, and lastly how the clusters of imputed genotype are pieced together as the final imputation result. We design extensive empirical experiments using several hundred sequenced and genotyped animals to demonstrate that our novel two-step piecemeal imputation always achieves an improvement compared to the one-step imputation by the state-of-the-art methods Beagle and FImpute. Using the two-step piecemeal imputation, we present some preliminary success on whole genome SNP genotype imputation for genotyped animals via a series of staircase arrays. From a low SNP density to the whole genome, intermediate pseudo-arrays can be computationally constructed by selecting the most informative SNPs for untyped SNP genotype imputation. Such pseudo-array staircases are able to impute more accurately than the classic one-step imputation.
GmrSD is a modification-dependent restriction endonuclease that specifically targets and cleaves glucosylated hydroxymethylcytosine (glc-HMC) modified DNA. It is encoded either as two separate single-domain GmrS and GmrD proteins or as a single protein carrying both domains. Previous studies suggested that GmrS acts as endonuclease and NTPase whereas GmrD binds DNA. Methods: In this work we applied homology detection, sequence conservation analysis, fold recognition and homology modeling methods to study sequence-structure-function relationships in the GmrSD restriction endonucleases family. We also analyzed the phylogeny and genomic context of the family members. Results of our comparative genomics study show that GmrS exhibits similarity to proteins from the ParB/Srx fold which can have both NTPase and nuclease activity. In contrast to the previous studies though, we attribute the nuclease activity also to GmrD as we found it to contain the HNH endonuclease motif. We revealed residues potentially important for structure and function in both domains. Moreover, we found that GmrSD systems exist predominantly as a fused, double-domain form rather than as a heterodimer and that their homologs are often encoded in regions enriched in defense and gene mobility-related elements. Finally, phylogenetic reconstructions of GmrS and GmrD domains revealed that they coevolved and only few GmrSD systems appear to be assembled from distantly related GmrS and GmrD components. Our study provides insight into sequence-structure-function relationships in the yet poorly characterized family of Type IV restriction enzymes. Comparative genomics allowed to propose possible role of GmrD domain in the function of the GmrSD enzyme and possible active sites of both GmrS and GmrD domains. Presented results can guide further experimental characterization of these enzymes. 
With more and more protein sequences produced in the genomic era, predicting protein structures from sequences becomes very important for elucidating the molecular details and functions of these proteins for biomedical research. Traditional template-based protein structure prediction methods tend to focus on identifying the best templates, generating the best alignments, and applying the best energy function to rank models, which often cannot achieve the best performance because of the difficulty of obtaining best templates, alignments, and models. Methods: We developed a large-scale conformation sampling and evaluation method and its servers to improve the reliability and robustness of protein structure prediction. In the first step, our method used a variety of alignment methods to sample relevant and complementary templates and to generate alternative and diverse target-template alignments, used a template and alignment combination protocol to combine alignments, and used template-based and template-free modeling methods to generate a pool of conformations for a target protein. In the second step, it used a large number of protein model quality assessment methods to evaluate and rank the models in the protein model pool, in conjunction with an exception handling strategy to deal with any additional failure in model ranking. The method was implemented as two protein structure prediction servers: MULTICOM-CONSTRUCT and MULTICOM-CLUSTER that participated in the 11th Critical Assessment of Techniques for Protein Structure Prediction (CASP11) in 2014. The two servers were ranked among the best 10 server predictors. The good performance of our servers in CASP11 demonstrates the effectiveness and robustness of the large-scale conformation sampling and evaluation. The MULTICOM server is available at:  
Enrichment analysis is a popular approach to identify pathways or sets of genes which are significantly enriched in the context of differentially expressed genes. The traditional gene set enrichment approach considers a pathway as a simple gene list disregarding any knowledge of gene or protein interactions. In contrast, the new group of so called pathway topology-based methods integrates the topological structure of a pathway into the analysis. Methods: We comparatively investigated gene set and pathway topology-based enrichment approaches, considering three gene set and four topological methods. These methods were compared in two extensive simulation studies and on a benchmark of 36 real datasets, providing the same pathway input data for all methods. In the benchmark data analysis both types of methods showed a comparable ability to detect enriched pathways. The first simulation study was conducted with KEGG pathways, which showed considerable gene overlaps between each other. In this study with original KEGG pathways, none of the topology-based methods outperformed the gene set approach. Therefore, a second simulation study was performed on non-overlapping pathways created by unique gene IDs. Here, methods accounting for pathway topology reached higher accuracy than the gene set methods, however their sensitivity was lower. We conducted one of the first comprehensive comparative works on evaluating gene set against pathway topology-based enrichment methods. The topological methods showed better performance in the simulation scenarios with non-overlapping pathways, however, they were not conclusively better in the other scenarios. This suggests that simple gene set approach might be sufficient to detect an enriched pathway under realistic circumstances. Nevertheless, more extensive studies and further benchmark data are needed to systematically evaluate these methods and to assess what gain and cost pathway topology information introduces into enrichment analysis. Both types of methods for enrichment analysis require further improvements in order to deal with the problem of pathway overlaps. 
Many biological systems exhibit sustained stochastic oscillations in their steady state. Assessing these oscillations is usually a challenging task due to the potential variability of the amplitude and frequency of the oscillations over time. As a result of this variability, when several stochastic replications are averaged, the oscillations are flattened and can be overlooked. This can easily lead to the erroneous conclusion that the system reaches a constant steady state. This paper proposes a straightforward method to detect and asses stochastic oscillations. The basis of the method is in the use of polar coordinates for systems with two species, and cylindrical coordinates for systems with more than two species. By slightly modifying these coordinate systems, it is possible to compute the total angular distance run by the system and the average Euclidean distance to a reference point. This allows us to compute confidence intervals, both for the average angular speed and for the distance to a reference point, from a set of replications. The use of polar (or cylindrical) coordinates provides a new perspective of the system dynamics. The mean trajectory that can be obtained by averaging the usual cartesian coordinates of the samples informs about the trajectory of the center of mass of the replications. In contrast to such a mean cartesian trajectory, the mean polar trajectory can be used to compute the average circular motion of those replications, and therefore, can yield evidence about sustained steady state oscillations. Both, the coordinate transformation and the computation of confidence intervals, can be carried out efficiently. This results in an efficient method to evaluate stochastic oscillations.
The high-throughput sequencing technology, RNA-Seq, has been widely used to quantify gene and isoform expression in the study of transcriptome in recent years. Accurate expression measurement from the millions or billions of short generated reads is obstructed by difficulties. One is ambiguous mapping of reads to reference transcriptome caused by alternative splicing. This increases the uncertainty in estimating isoform expression. The other is non-uniformity of read distribution along the reference transcriptome due to positional, sequencing, mappability and other undiscovered sources of biases. This violates the uniform assumption of read distribution for many expression calculation approaches, such as the direct RPKM calculation and Poisson-based models. Many methods have been proposed to address these difficulties. Some approaches employ latent variable models to discover the underlying pattern of read sequencing. However, most of these methods make bias correction based on surrounding sequence contents and share the bias models by all genes. They therefore cannot estimate gene- and isoform-specific biases as revealed by recent studies. We propose a latent variable model, NLDMseq, to estimate gene and isoform expression. Our method adopts latent variables to model the unknown isoforms, from which reads originate, and the underlying percentage of multiple spliced variants. The isoform- and exon-specific read sequencing biases are modeled to account for the non-uniformity of read distribution, and are identified by utilizing the replicate information of multiple lanes of a single library run. We employ simulation and real data to verify the performance of our method in terms of accuracy in the calculation of gene and isoform expression. Results show that NLDMseq obtains competitive gene and isoform expression compared to popular alternatives. Finally, the proposed method is applied to the detection of differential expression (DE) to show its usefulness in the downstream analysis. The proposed NLDMseq method provides an approach to accurately estimate gene and isoform expression from RNA-Seq data by modeling the isoform- and exon-specific read sequencing biases. It makes use of a latent variable model to discover the hidden pattern of read sequencing. We have shown that it works well in both simulations and real datasets, and has competitive performance compared to popular methods. The method has been implemented as a freely available software which can be found at  
The goal of this survey paper is to overview cellular measurements using optical microscopy imaging followed by automated image segmentation. The cellular measurements of primary interest are taken from mammalian cells and their components. They are denoted as two- or three-dimensional (2D or 3D) image objects of biological interest. In our applications, such cellular measurements are important for understanding cell phenomena, such as cell counts, cell-scaffold interactions, cell colony growth rates, or cell pluripotency stability, as well as for establishing quality metrics for stem cell therapies. In this context, this survey paper is focused on automated segmentation as a software-based measurement leading to quantitative cellular measurements. Methods: We define the scope of this survey and a classification schema first. Next, all found and manually filteredpublications are classified according to the main categories: (1) objects of interests (or objects to be segmented), (2) imaging modalities, (3) digital data axes, (4) segmentation algorithms, (5) segmentation evaluations, (6) computational hardware platforms used for segmentation acceleration, and (7) object (cellular) measurements. Finally, all classified papers are converted programmatically into a set of hyperlinked web pages with occurrence and co-occurrence statistics of assigned categories. The survey paper presents to a reader: (a) the state-of-the-art overview of published papers about automated segmentation applied to optical microscopy imaging of mammalian cells, (b) a classification of segmentation aspects in the context of cell optical imaging, (c) histogram and co-occurrence summary statistics about cellular measurements, segmentations, segmented objects, segmentation evaluations, and the use of computational platforms for accelerating segmentation execution, and (d) open research problems to pursue. The novel contributions of this survey paper are: (1) a new type of classification of cellular measurements and automated segmentation, (2) statistics about the published literature, and (3) a web hyperlinked interface to classification statistics of the surveyed papers at 
One of the most important somatic aberrations, copy number variations (CNVs) in tumor genomes is believed to have a high probability of harboring oncotargets. Detection of somatic CNVs is an essential part of cancer genome sequencing analysis, but the accuracy is usually limited due to various factors. A post-processing procedure including manual review and refinement of CNV segments is often needed in practice to achieve better accuracy. cnvCurator is a user-friendly tool with functions specifically designed to facilitate the process of interactively visualizing and editing somatic CNV calling results. Different from other general genomics viewers, the index and display of CNV calling results in cnvCurator is segment central. It incorporates multiple CNV-specific information for concurrent, interactive display, as well as a number of relevant features allowing user to examine and curate the CNV calls. cnvCurator provides important and practical utilities to assist the manual review and edition of results from a chosen somatic CNV caller, such that curated CNV segments will be used for down-stream applications.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of irreversible visual loss in the elderly in developed countries and typically affects more than 10 % of individuals over age 80. AMD has a large genetic component, with heritability estimated to be between 45 % and 70 %. Numerous variants have been identified and implicate various molecular mechanisms and pathways for AMD pathogenesis but those variants only explain a portion of AMD’s heritability. The goal of our study was to estimate the cumulative genetic contribution of common variants on AMD risk for multiple pathways related to the etiology of AMD, including angiogenesis, antioxidant activity, apoptotic signaling, complement activation, inflammatory response, response to nicotine, oxidative phosphorylation, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. While these mechanisms have been associated with AMD in literature, the overall extent of the contribution to AMD risk for each is unknown. Methods: In a case–control dataset with 1,813 individuals genotyped for over 600,000 SNPs we used Genome-wide Complex Trait Analysis (GCTA) to estimate the proportion of AMD risk explained by SNPs in genes associated with each pathway. SNPs within a 50 kb region flanking each gene were also assessed, as well as more distant, putatively regulatory SNPs, based on DNaseI hypersensitivity data from ocular tissue in the ENCODE project. We found that 19 previously associated AMD risk SNPs contributed to 13.3 % of the risk for AMD in our dataset, while the remaining genotyped SNPs contributed to 36.7 % of AMD risk. Adjusting for the 19 risk SNPs, the complement activation and inflammatory response pathways still explained a statistically significant proportion of additional risk for AMD (9.8 % and 17.9 %, respectively), with other pathways showing no significant effects (0.3 % – 4.4 %). Discussion: Our results show that SNPs associated with complement activation and inflammation significantly contribute to AMD risk, separately from the risk explained by the 19 known risk SNPs. We found that SNPs within 50 kb regions flanking genes explained additional risk beyond genic SNPs, suggesting a potential regulatory role, but that more distant SNPs explained less than 0.5 % additional risk for each pathway. From these analyses we find that the impact of complement SNPs on risk for AMD extends beyond the established genome-wide significant SNPs. 
In recent years data integration has become an everyday undertaking for life sciences researchers. Aggregating and processing data from disparate sources, whether through specific developed software or via manual processes, is a common task for scientists. However, the scope and usability of the majority of current integration tools fail to deal with the fast growing and highly dynamic nature of biomedical data. In this work we introduce a reactive and event-driven framework that simplifies real-time data integration and interoperability. This platform facilitates otherwise difficult tasks, such as connecting heterogeneous services, indexing, linking and transferring data from distinct resources, or subscribing to notifications regarding the timeliness of dynamic data. For developers, the framework automates the deployment of integrative and interoperable bioinformatics applications, using atomic data storage for content change detection, and enabling agent-based intelligent extract, transform and load tasks. This work bridges the gap between the growing number of services, accessing specific data sources or algorithms, and the growing number of users, performing simple integration tasks on a recurring basis, through a streamlined workspace available to researchers and developers alike.
Network query problem aligns a small query network with an arbitrarily large target network. The complexity of this problem grows exponentially with the number of nodes in the query network if confidence in the optimality of result is desired. Scaling this problem to large query and target networks remains to be a challenge. In this article, we develop a novel index structure that dramatically reduces the cost of the network query problem. Our index structure maintains a small set of reference networks where each reference network is a small, carefully chosen subnetwork from the target network. Along with each reference, we also store all of its non-overlapping and statistically significant alignments with the target network. Given a query network, we first align the query with the reference networks. If the alignment with a reference network yields a sufficiently large score, we compute an upper-bound to the alignment score between the query and the target using the alignments of that reference and the target (which is stored in our index). If the upper-bound is large enough, we employ a second round of alignment between the query and the target by respecting the mapping found in the first alignment.Our experiments on protein-protein interaction networks demonstrate that our index achieves a significant speed-up in running time over the state-of-the-art methods such as ColT. The alignment subnetworks obtained by our method are also statistically significant. Finally, we observe that our method finds biologically and statistically significant alignments across multiple species. We developed a reference network based indexing structure that accelerates network query and produces functionally and statistically significant results.
In cancer research, the comparison of gene expression or DNA methylation networks inferred from healthy controls and patients can lead to the discovery of biological pathways associated to the disease. As a cancer progresses, its signalling and control networks are subject to some degree of localised re-wiring. Being able to detect disrupted interaction patterns induced by the presence or progression of the disease can lead to the discovery of novel molecular diagnostic and prognostic signatures. Currently there is a lack of scalable statistical procedures for two-network comparisons aimed at detecting localised topological differences. We propose the dGHD algorithm, a methodology for detecting differential interaction patterns in two-network comparisons. The algorithm relies on a statistic, the Generalised Hamming Distance (GHD), for assessing the degree of topological difference between networks and evaluating its statistical significance. dGHD builds on a non-parametric permutation testing framework but achieves computationally efficiency through an asymptotic normal approximation. We show that the GHD is able to detect more subtle topological differences compared to a standard Hamming distance between networks. This results in the dGHD algorithm achieving high performance in simulation studies as measured by sensitivity and specificity. An application to the problem of detecting differential DNA co-methylation subnetworks associated to ovarian cancer demonstrates the potential benefits of the proposed methodology for discovering network-derived biomarkers associated with a trait of interest.
Taxonomic classification is a corner stone for the characterisation and comparison of microbial communities. Currently, most existing methods are either slow, restricted to specific communities, highly sensitive to taxonomic inconsistencies, or limited to genus level classification. As crucial microbiota information is hinging on high-level resolution it is imperative to increase taxonomic resolution to species level wherever possible. In response to this need we developed SPINGO, a flexible and stand-alone software dedicated to high-resolution assignment of sequences to species level using partial 16S rRNA gene sequences from any environment. SPINGO compares favourably to other methods in terms of classification accuracy, and is as fast or faster than those that have higher error rates. As a demonstration of its flexibility for other types of target genes we successfully applied SPINGO also on cpn60 amplicon sequences. SPINGO is an accurate, flexible and fast method for low-level taxonomic assignment. This combination is becoming increasingly important for rapid and accurate processing of amplicon data generated by newer next generation sequencing technologies. 
Protein families participating in protein-protein interactions may contain sub-families that have different binding characteristics, ranging from right binding to showing no interaction at all. Composition differences at the sequence level in these sub-families are often decisive to their differential functional interaction. Methods to predict interface sites from protein sequences typically exploit conservation as a signal. Here, instead, we provide proof of concept that the sequence specificity between interacting versus non-interacting groups can be exploited to recognise interaction sites. We collected homodimeric and monomeric proteins and formed homologous groups, each having an interacting (homodimer) subgroup and a non-interacting (monomer) subgroup. We then compiled multiple sequence alignments of the proteins in the homologous groups and identified compositional differences between the homodimeric and monomeric subgroups for each of the alignment positions. Our results show that this specificity signal distinguishes interface and other surface residues with 40.9 % recall and up to 25.1 % precision. To our best knowledge, this is the first large scale study that exploits sequence specificity between interacting and non-interacting homologs to predict interaction sites from sequence information only. The performance obtained indicates that this signal contains valuable information to identify protein-protein interaction sites. 
Continual progress in next-generation sequencing allows for generating increasingly large metagenomes which are over time or space. Comparing and classifying the metagenomes with different microbial communities is critical. Alignment-free supervised classification is important for discriminating between the multifarious components of metagenomic samples, because it can be accomplished independently of known microbial genomes. We propose an alignment-free supervised metagenomic classification method called DectICO. The intrinsic correlation of oligonucleotides provides the feature set, which is selected dynamically using a kernel partial least squares algorithm, and the feature matrices extracted with this set are sequentially employed to train classifiers by support vector machine (SVM). We evaluated the classification performance of DectICO on three actual metagenomic sequencing datasets, two containing deep sequencing metagenomes and one of low coverage. Validation results show that DectICO is powerful, performs well based on long oligonucleotides (i.e., 6-mer to 8-mer), and is more stable and generalized than a sequence-composition-based method. The classifiers trained by our method are more accurate than non-dynamic feature selection methods and a recently published recursive-SVM-based classification approach. The alignment-free supervised classification method DectICO can accurately classify metagenomic samples without dependence on known microbial genomes. Selecting the ICO dynamically offers better stability and generality compared with sequence-composition-based classification algorithms. Our proposed method provides new insights in metagenomic sample classification. 
The Smith-Waterman algorithm is known to be a more sensitive approach than heuristic algorithms for local sequence alignment algorithms. Despite its sensitivity, a greater time complexity associated with the Smith-Waterman algorithm prevents its application to the all-pairs comparisons of base sequences, which aids in the construction of accurate phylogenetic trees. The aim of this study is to achieve greater acceleration using the Smith-Waterman algorithm (by realizing interpair block pruning and band optimization) compared with that achieved using a previous method that performs intrapair block pruning on graphics processing units (GPUs). We present an interpair optimization method for the Smith-Waterman algorithm with the aim of accelerating the all-pairs comparison of base sequences. Given the results of the pairs of sequences, our method realizes efficient block pruning by computing a lower bound for other pairs that have not yet been processed. This lower bound is further used for band optimization. We integrated our interpair optimization method into SW#, a previous GPU-based implementation that employs variants of a banded Smith-Waterman algorithm and a banded Myers-Miller algorithm. Evaluation using the six genomes of Bacillus anthracis shows that our method pruned 88 % of the matrix cells on a single GPU and 73 % of the matrix cells on two GPUs. For the genomes of the human chromosome 21, the alignment performance reached 202 giga-cell updates per second (GCUPS) on two Tesla K40 GPUs. Efficient interpair pruning and band optimization makes it possible to complete the all-pairs comparisons of the sequences of the same species 1.2 times faster than the intrapair pruning method. This acceleration was achieved at the first phase of SW#, where our method significantly improved the initial lower bound. However, our interpair optimization was not effective for the comparison of the sequences of different species such as comparing human, chimpanzee, and gorilla. Consequently, our method is useful in accelerating the applications that require optimal local alignments scores for the same species. The source code is available for download from -hagi.ist.osaka-u.ac.jp/research/code/.
Alignment of large and diverse sequence sets is a common task in biological investigations, yet there remains considerable room for improvement in alignment quality. Multiple sequence alignment programs tend to reach maximal accuracy when aligning only a few sequences, and then diminish steadily as more sequences are added. This drop in accuracy can be partly attributed to a build-up of error and ambiguity as more sequences are aligned. Most high-throughput sequence alignment algorithms do not use contextual information under the assumption that sites are independent. This study examines the extent to which local sequence context can be exploited to improve the quality of large multiple sequence alignments. Two predictors based on local sequence context were assessed: (i) single sequence secondary structure predictions, and (ii) modulation of gap costs according to the surrounding residues. The results indicate that context-based predictors have appreciable information content that can be utilized to create more accurate alignments. Furthermore, local context becomes more informative as the number of sequences increases, enabling more accurate protein alignments of large empirical benchmarks. These discoveries became the basis for DECIPHER, a new context-aware program for sequence alignment, which outperformed other programs on large sequence sets. Predicting secondary structure based on local sequence context is an efficient means of breaking the independence assumption in alignment. Since secondary structure is more conserved than primary sequence, it can be leveraged to improve the alignment of distantly related proteins. Moreover, secondary structure predictions increase in accuracy as more sequences are used in the prediction. This enables the scalable generation of large sequence alignments that maintain high accuracy even on diverse sequence sets. The DECIPHER R package and source code are freely available for download at DECIPHER.cee.wisc.edu and from the Bioconductor repository. 
Mass spectrometry is one of the most important techniques in the field of proteomics. MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry has become popular during the last decade due to its high speed and sensitivity for detecting proteins and peptides. MALDI-TOF-MS can be also used in combination with Machine Learning techniques and statistical methods for knowledge discovery. Although there are many software libraries and tools that can be combined for these kind of analysis, there is still a need for all-in-one solutions with graphical user-friendly interfaces and avoiding the need of programming skills. Mass-Up, an open software multiplatform application for MALDI-TOF-MS knowledge discovery is herein presented. Mass-Up software allows data preprocessing, as well as subsequent analysis including (i) biomarker discovery, (ii) clustering, (iii) biclustering, (iv) three-dimensional PCA visualization and (v) classification of large sets of spectra data. Mass-Up brings knowledge discovery within reach of MALDI-TOF-MS researchers. Mass-Up is distributed under license GPLv3 and it is open and free to all users at -up. 
Single cell gene expression assays have become a powerful tool with which to dissect heterogeneous populations. While methods and software exist to interrogate such data, what has been lacking is a unified solution combining analysis and visualisation which is also accessible and intuitive for use by non-bioinformaticians, as well as bioinformaticians. We present the Single cell expression visualiser (SCExV), a webtool developed to expedite the analysis of single cell qRT-PCR data. SCExV is able to take any data matrix of Ct values as an input, but can handle files exported by the Fluidigm Biomark platform directly. In addition, SCExV also accepts and automatically integrates cell surface marker intensity values which are measured during index sorting. This allows the user to directly visualise relationships between a single cell gene expression profile and the immunophenotype of the interrogated cell. SCExV is a freely available webtool created to import, filter, analyse, and visualise single cell gene expression data whilst being able to simultaneously consider cellular immunophenotype. SCExV is designed to be intuitive to use whilst maintaining advanced functionality and flexibility in how analyses are performed.
Wolbachia invasion has been proved to be a promising alternative for controlling vector-borne diseases, particularly Dengue fever. Creating computer models that can provide insight into how vector population modification can be achieved under different conditions would be most valuable for assessing the efficacy of control strategies for this disease. Methods: In this paper, we present a computer model that simulates the behavior of native mosquito populations after the introduction of mosquitoes infected with the Wolbachia bacteria. We studied how different factors such as fecundity, fitness cost of infection, migration rates, number of populations, population size, and number of introduced infected mosquitoes affect the spread of the Wolbachia bacteria among native mosquito populations. Two main scenarios of the island model are presented in this paper, with infected mosquitoes introduced into the largest source population and peripheral populations. Overall, the results are promising; Wolbachia infection spreads among native populations and the computer model is capable of reproducing the results obtained by mathematical models and field experiments. Computer models can be very useful for gaining insight into how Wolbachia invasion works and are a promising alternative for complementing experimental and mathematical approaches for vector-borne disease control.
In the field of network science, exploring principal and crucial modules or communities is critical in the deduction of relationships and organization of complex networks. This approach expands an arena, and thus allows further study of biological functions in the field of network biology. As the clustering algorithms that are currently employed in finding modules have innate uncertainties, external and internal validations are necessary. Methods: Sequence and network structure alignment, has been used to define the Interlog Protein Network (IPN). This network is an evolutionarily conserved network with communal nodes and less false-positive links. In the current study, the IPN is employed as an evolution-based benchmark in the validation of the module finding methods. The clustering results of five algorithms; Markov Clustering (MCL), Restricted Neighborhood Search Clustering (RNSC), Cartographic Representation (CR), Laplacian Dynamics (LD) and Genetic Algorithm; to find communities in Protein-Protein Interaction networks (GAPPI) are assessed by IPN in four distinct Protein-Protein Interaction Networks (PPINs). The MCL shows a more accurate algorithm based on this evolutionary benchmarking approach. Also, the biological relevance of proteins in the IPN modules generated by MCL is compatible with biological standard databases such as Gene Ontology, KEGG and Reactome. Conclusion: In this study, the IPN shows its potential for validation of clustering algorithms due to its biological logic and straightforward implementation. 
Reconstructing evolution provides valuable insights into the processes of gene evolution and function. However, while there have been great advances in algorithms and software to reconstruct the history of gene families, these tools do not model the domain shuffling events (domain duplication, insertion, transfer, and deletion) that drive the evolution of multidomain protein families. Protein evolution through domain shuffling events allows for rapid exploration of functions by introducing new combinations of existing folds. This powerful mechanism was key to some significant evolutionary innovations, such as multicellularity and the vertebrate immune system. A method for reconstructing this important evolutionary process is urgently needed. Here, we introduce a novel, event-based framework for studying multidomain evolution by reconciling a domain tree with a gene tree, with additional information provided by the species tree. In the context of this framework, we present the first reconciliation algorithms to infer domain shuffling events, while addressing the challenges inherent in the inference of evolution across three levels of organization. We apply these methods to the evolution of domains in the Membrane associated Guanylate Kinase family. These case studies reveal a more vivid and detailed evolutionary history than previously provided. Our algorithms have been implemented in software, freely available at ˜durand/Notung.
The accessibility of almost complete genome sequences of uncultivable microbial species from metagenomes necessitates computational methods predicting microbial phenotypes solely based on genomic data. Here we investigate how comparative genomics can be utilized for the prediction of microbial phenotypes. The PICA framework facilitates application and comparison of different machine learning techniques for phenotypic trait prediction. We have improved and extended PICA's support vector machine plug-in and suggest its applicability to large-scale genome databases and incomplete genome sequences.We have demonstrated the stability of the predictive power for phenotypic traits, not perturbed by the rapid growth of genome databases. A new software tool facilitates the in-depth analysis of phenotype models, which associate expected and unexpected protein functions with particular traits. Most of the traits can be reliably predicted in only 60-70% complete genomes. We have established a new phenotypic model that predicts intracellular microorganisms. Thereby we could demonstrate that also independently evolved phenotypic traits, characterized by genome reduction, can be reliably predicted based on comparative genomics.Our results suggest that the extended PICA framework can be used to automatically annotate phenotypes in near-complete microbial genome sequences, as generated in large numbers in current metagenomics studies.
This paper presents new structural and algorithmic results around the scaffolding problem, which occurs prominently in next generation sequencing. The problem can be formalized as an optimization problem on a special graph, the "scaffold graph". We prove that the problem is polynomial if this graph is a tree by providing a dynamic programming algorithm for this case. This algorithm serves as a basis to deduce an exact algorithm for general graphs using a tree decomposition of the input. We explore other structural parameters, proving a linear-size problem kernel with respect to the size of a feedback-edge set on a restricted version of Scaffolding. Finally, we examine some parameters of scaffold graphs, which are based on real-world genomes, revealing that the feedback edge set is significantly smaller than the input size.
Most models of genome evolution concern either genetic sequences, gene content or gene order. They sometimes integrate two of the three levels, but rarely the three of them. Probabilistic models of gene order evolution usually have to assume constant gene content or adopt a presence/absence coding of gene neighborhoods which is blind to complex events modifying gene content. We propose a probabilistic evolutionary model for gene neighborhoods, allowing genes to be inserted, duplicated or lost. It uses reconciled phylogenies, which integrate sequence and gene content evolution. We are then able to optimize parameters such as phylogeny branch lengths, or probabilistic laws depicting the diversity of susceptibility of syntenic regions to rearrangements. We reconstruct a structure for ancestral genomes by optimizing a likelihood, keeping track of all evolutionary events at the level of gene content and gene synteny. Ancestral syntenies are associated with a probability of presence.We implemented the model with the restriction that at most one gene duplication separates two gene speciations in reconciled gene trees. We reconstruct ancestral syntenies on a set of 12 drosophila genomes, and compare the evolutionary rates along the branches and along the sites. We compare with a parsimony method and find a significant number of results not supported by the posterior probability. The model is implemented in the Bio++ library. It thus benefits from and enriches the classical models and methods for molecular evolution.
Even for moderate size inputs, there are a tremendous number of optimal rearrangement scenarios, regardless what the model is and which specific question is to be answered. Therefore giving one optimal solution might be misleading and cannot be used for statistical inferring. Statistically well funded methods are necessary to sample uniformly from the solution space and then a small number of samples are sufficient for statistical inferring. Contribution: In this paper, we give a mini-review about the state-of-the-art of sampling and counting rearrangement scenarios, focusing on the reversal, DCJ and SCJ models. Above that, we also give a Gibbs sampler for sampling most parsimonious labeling of evolutionary trees under the SCJ model. The method has been implemented and tested on real life data. The software package together with example data can be downloaded from ~miklosi/SCJ-Gibbs/
We study statistical estimators of the number of genomic events separating two genomes under a Double Cut-and Join (DCJ) rearrangement model, by a method of moment estimation. We first propose an exact, closed, analytically invertible formula for the expected number of breakpoints after a given number of DCJs. This improves over the heuristic, recursive and computationally slower previously proposed one. Then we explore the analogies of genome evolution by DCJ with evolution of binary sequences under substitutions, permutations under transpositions, and random graphs. Each of these are presented in the literature with intuitive justifications, and are used to import results from better known fields. We formalize the relations by proving a correspondence between moments in sequence and genome evolution, provided substitutions appear four by four in the corresponding model. Eventually we prove a bounded error on two estimators of the number of cycles in the breakpoint graph after a given number of rearrangements, by an analogy with cycles in permutations and components in random graphs.
Combining a set of trees on partial datasets into a single tree is a classical method for inferring large phylogenetic trees. Ideally, the combined tree should display each input partial tree, which is only possible if input trees do not contain contradictory phylogenetic information. The simplest version of the supertree problem is thus to state whether a set of trees is compatible, and if so, construct a tree displaying them all. Classically, supertree methods have been applied to the reconstruction of species trees. Here we rather consider reconstructing a super gene tree in light of a known species tree S. We define the supergenetree problem as finding, among all supertrees displaying a set of input gene trees, one supertree minimizing a reconciliation distance with S. We first show how classical exact methods to the supertree problem can be extended to the supergenetree problem. As all these methods are highly exponential, we also exhibit a natural greedy heuristic for the duplication cost, based on minimizing the set of duplications preceding the first speciation event. We then show that both the supergenetree problem and its restriction to minimizing duplications preceding the first speciation are NP-hard to approximate within a n1-ϵ factor, for any 0 < ϵ < 1. Finally, we show that a restriction of this problem to uniquely labeled speciation gene trees, which is relevant to many biological applications, is also NP-hard. Therefore, we introduce new avenues in the field of supertrees, and set the theoretical basis for the exploration of various algorithmic aspects of the problems.
The problem of reconstructing ancestral genomes in a given phylogenetic tree arises in many different comparative genomics fields. Here, we focus on reconstructing the gene order of ancestral genomes, a problem that has been largely studied in the past 20 years, especially with the increasing availability of whole genome DNA sequences. There are two main approaches to this problem: event-based methods, that try to find the ancestral genomes that minimize the number of rearrangement events in the tree; and homology-based, that look for conserved structures, such as adjacent genes in the extant genomes, to build the ancestral genomes. We propose algorithms that use the concept of intermediate genomes, arising in optimal pairwise rearrangement scenarios. We show that intermediate genomes have combinatorial properties that make them easy to reconstruct, and develop fast algorithms with better reconstructed ancestral genomes than current event-based methods. The proposed framework is also designed to accept extra information, such as results from homology-based approaches, giving rise to combined algorithms with better results than the original methods.
The detection of the glomeruli is a key step in the histopathological evaluation of microscopic images of the kidneys. However, the task of automatic detection of the glomeruli poses challenges owing to the differences in their sizes and shapes in renal sections as well as the extensive variations in their intensities due to heterogeneity in immunohistochemistry staining.Although the rectangular histogram of oriented gradients (Rectangular HOG) is a widely recognized powerful descriptor for general object detection, it shows many false positives owing to the aforementioned difficulties in the context of glomeruli detection. A new descriptor referred to as Segmental HOG was developed to perform a comprehensive detection of hundreds of glomeruli in images of whole kidney sections. The new descriptor possesses flexible blocks that can be adaptively fitted to input images in order to acquire robustness for the detection of the glomeruli. Moreover, the novel segmentation technique employed herewith generates high-quality segmentation outputs, and the algorithm is assured to converge to an optimal solution. Consequently, experiments using real-world image data revealed that Segmental HOG achieved significant improvements in detection performance compared to Rectangular HOG. Conclusion: The proposed descriptor for glomeruli detection presents promising results, and it is expected to be useful in pathological evaluation.
In the last decade, a great number of methods for reconstructing gene regulatory networks from expression data have been proposed. However, very few tools and datasets allow to evaluate accurately and reproducibly those methods. Hence, we propose here a new tool, able to perform a systematic, yet fully reproducible, evaluation of transcriptional network inference methods. Our open-source and freely available Bioconductor package aggregates a large set of tools to assess the robustness of network inference algorithms against different simulators, topologies, sample sizes and noise intensities. The benchmarking framework that uses various datasets highlights the specialization of some methods toward network types and data. As a result, it is possible to identify the techniques that have broad overall performances. 
Copy number variations are important in the detection and progression of significant tumors and diseases. Recently, Whole Exome Sequencing is gaining popularity with copy number variations detection due to low cost and better efficiency. In this work, we developed VEGAWES for accurate and robust detection of copy number variations on WES data. VEGAWES is an extension to a variational based segmentation algorithm, VEGA: Variational estimator for genomic aberrations, which has previously outperformed several algorithms on segmenting array comparative genomic hybridization data. We tested this algorithm on synthetic data and 100 Glioblastoma Multiforme primary tumor samples. The results on the real data were analyzed with segmentation obtained from Single-nucleotide polymorphism data as ground truth. We compared our results with two other segmentation algorithms and assessed the performance based on accuracy and time. In terms of both accuracy and time, VEGAWES provided better results on the synthetic data and tumor samples demonstrating its potential in robust detection of aberrant regions in the genome.
Numerous methods are available to profile several epigenetic marks, providing data with different genome coverage and resolution. Large epigenomic datasets are then generated, and often combined with other high-throughput data, including RNA-seq, ChIP-seq for transcription factors (TFs) binding and DNase-seq experiments. Despite the numerous computational tools covering specific steps in the analysis of large-scale epigenomics data, comprehensive software solutions for their integrative analysis are still missing. Multiple tools must be identified and combined to jointly analyze histone marks, TFs binding and other -omics data together with DNA methylation data, complicating the analysis of these data and their integration with publicly available datasets. To overcome the burden of integrating various data types with multiple tools, we developed two companion R/Bioconductor packages. The former, methylPipe, is tailored to the analysis of high- or low-resolution DNA methylomes in several species, accommodating (hydroxy-)methyl-cytosines in both CpG and non-CpG sequence context. The analysis of multiple whole-genome bisulfite sequencing experiments is supported, while maintaining the ability of integrating targeted genomic data. The latter, compEpiTools, seamlessly incorporates the results obtained with methylPipe and supports their integration with other epigenomics data. It provides a number of methods to score these data in regions of interest, leading to the identification of enhancers, lncRNAs, and RNAPII stalling/elongation dynamics. Moreover, it allows a fast and comprehensive annotation of the resulting genomic regions, and the association of the corresponding genes with non-redundant GeneOntology terms. Finally, the package includes a flexible method based on heatmaps for the integration of various data types, combining annotation tracks with continuous or categorical data tracks. methylPipe and compEpiTools provide a comprehensive Bioconductor-compliant solution for the integrative analysis of heterogeneous epigenomics data. These packages are instrumental in providing biologists with minimal R skills a complete toolkit facilitating the analysis of their own data, or in accelerating the analyses performed by more experienced bioinformaticians. 
We are creating software for agent-based simulation and visualization of bio-molecular processes in bacterial and eukaryotic cells. As a first example, we have built a 3-dimensional, interactive computer model of an Escherichia coli bacterium and its associated biomolecular processes. Our illustrative model focuses on the gene regulatory processes that control the expression of genes involved in the lactose operon. Prokaryo, our agent-based cell simulator, incorporates cellular structures, such as plasma membranes and cytoplasm, as well as elements of the molecular machinery, including RNA polymerase, messenger RNA, lactose permease, and ribosomes. The dynamics of cellular ’agents’ are defined by their rules of interaction, implemented as finite state machines. The agents are embedded within a 3-dimensional virtual environment with simulated physical and electrochemical properties. The hybrid model is driven by a combination of (1) mathematical equations (DEQs) to capture higher-scale phenomena and (2) agent-based rules to implement localized interactions among a small number of molecular elements. Consequently, our model is able to capture phenomena across multiple spatial scales, from changing concentration gradients to one-on-one molecular interactions.We use the classic gene regulatory mechanism of the lactose operon to demonstrate our model’s resolution, visual presentation, and real-time interactivity. Our agent-based model expands on a sophisticated mathematical E. coli metabolism model, through which we highlight our model’s scientific validity. Conclusion: We believe that through illustration and interactive exploratory learning a model system like Prokaryo can enhance the general understanding and perception of biomolecular processes. Our agent-DEQ hybrid modeling approach can also be of value to conceptualize, illustrate, and—eventually—validate cell experiments in the wet lab.
The characterization of proteins in families and subfamilies, at different levels, entails the definition and use of class labels. When the adscription of a protein to a family is uncertain, or even wrong, this becomes an instance of what has come to be known as a label noise problem. Label noise has a potentially negative effect on any quantitative analysis of proteins that depends on label information. This study investigates class C of G protein-coupled receptors, which are cell membrane proteins of relevance both to biology in general and pharmacology in particular. Their supervised classification into different known subtypes, based on primary sequence data, is hampered by label noise. The latter may stem from a combination of expert knowledge limitations and the lack of a clear correspondence between labels that mostly reflect GPCR functionality and the different representations of the protein primary sequences. In this study, we describe a systematic approach, using Support Vector Machine classifiers, to the analysis of G protein-coupled receptor misclassifications. As a proof of concept, this approach is used to assist the discovery of labeling quality problems in a curated, publicly accessible database of this type of proteins. We also investigate the extent to which physico-chemical transformations of the protein sequences reflect G protein-coupled receptor subtype labeling. The candidate mislabeled cases detected with this approach are externally validated with phylogenetic trees and against further trusted sources such as the National Center for Biotechnology Information, Universal Protein Resource, European Bioinformatics Institute and Ensembl Genome Browser information repositories. In quantitative classification problems, class labels are often by default assumed to be correct. Label noise, though, is bound to be a pervasive problem in bioinformatics, where labels may be obtained indirectly through complex, many-step similarity modelling processes. In the case of G protein-coupled receptors, methods capable of singling out and characterizing those sequences with consistent misclassification behaviour are required to minimize this problem. A systematic, Support Vector Machine-based method has been proposed in this study for such purpose. The proposed method enables a filtering approach to the label noise problem and might become a support tool for database curators in proteomics. 
Consanguinity is an important risk factor for autosomal recessive (AR) disorders. Extended genomic regions identical by descent (IBD) in the offspring of consanguineous parents give rise to recessive disorders with identical (homozygous) pathogenic variants in both alleles. However, many clinical phenotypes presenting in the offspring of consanguineous couples are still of unknown etiology. Nowadays advances in High Throughput Sequencing provide an excellent opportunity to achieve a molecular diagnosis or to identify novel candidate genes. To exploit all available information from the family structure we developed CATCH, an algorithm that combines genotyped SNPs of all family members for the optimal detection of Runs Of Homozygosity (ROH) and exome sequencing data from one affected individual to identify putative causative variants in consanguineous families. CATCH proved to be effective in discovering known or putative new causative variants in 43 out of 50 consanguineous families. Among them, novel variants causative of familial thrombocytopenia, sclerosis bone dysplasia and the first homozygous loss-of-function mutation in FGFR3 in human causing severe skeletal deformities, tall stature and hearing impairment were identified. 
The dimension and complexity of high-throughput gene expression data create many challenges for downstream analysis. Several approaches exist to reduce the number of variables with respect to small sample sizes. In this study, we utilized the Generalized Double Pareto (GDP) prior to induce sparsity in a Bayesian Generalized Linear Model (GLM) setting. The approach was evaluated using a publicly available microarray dataset containing 99 samples corresponding to four different prostate cancer subtypes. A hierarchical Sparse Bayesian GLM using GDP prior (SBGG) was developed to take into account the progressive nature of the response variable. We obtained an average overall classification accuracy between 82.5% and 94%, which was higher than Support Vector Machine, Random Forest or a Sparse Bayesian GLM using double exponential priors. Additionally, SBGG outperforms the other 3 methods in correctly identifying pre-metastatic stages of cancer progression, which can prove extremely valuable for therapeutic and diagnostic purposes. Importantly, using Geneset Cohesion Analysis Tool, we found that the top 100 genes produced by SBGG had an average functional cohesion p-value of 2.0E-4 compared to 0.007 to 0.131 produced by the other methods. Using GDP in a Bayesian GLM model applied to cancer progression data results in better subclass prediction. In particular, the method identifies pre-metastatic stages of prostate cancer with substantially better accuracy and produces more functionally relevant gene sets.
Topic modelling is an active research field in machine learning. While mainly used to build models from unstructured textual data, it offers an effective means of data mining where samples represent documents, and different biological endpoints or omics data represent words. Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) is the most commonly used topic modelling method across a wide number of technical fields. However, model development can be arduous and tedious, and requires burdensome and systematic sensitivity studies in order to find the best set of model parameters. Often, time-consuming subjective evaluations are needed to compare models. Currently, research has yielded no easy way to choose the proper number of topics in a model beyond a major iterative approach. Methods and results: Based on analysis of variation of statistical perplexity during topic modelling, a heuristic approach is proposed in this study to estimate the most appropriate number of topics. Specifically, the rate of perplexity change (RPC) as a function of numbers of topics is proposed as a suitable selector. We test the stability and effectiveness of the proposed method for three markedly different types of grounded-truth datasets: Salmonella next generation sequencing, pharmacological side effects, and textual abstracts on computational biology and bioinformatics (TCBB) from PubMed. Conclusion: The proposed RPC-based method is demonstrated to choose the best number of topics in three numerical experiments of widely different data types, and for databases of very different sizes. The work required was markedly less arduous than if full systematic sensitivity studies had been carried out with number of topics as a parameter. We understand that additional investigation is needed to substantiate the method's theoretical basis, and to establish its generalizability in terms of dataset characteristics.
Adapter trimming and removal of duplicate reads are common practices in next-generation sequencing pipelines. Sequencing reads ambiguously mapped to repetitive and low complexity regions can also be problematic for accurate assessment of the biological signal, yet their impact on sequencing data has not received much attention. We investigate how trimming the adapters, removing duplicates, and filtering out reads overlapping low complexity regions influence the significance of biological signal in RNA- and ChIP-seq experiments. Methods: We assessed the effect of data processing steps on the alignment statistics and the functional enrichment analysis results of RNA- and ChIP-seq data. We compared differentially processed RNA-seq data with matching microarray data on the same patient samples to determine whether changes in pre-processing improved correlation between the two. We have developed a simple tool to remove low complexity regions, RepeatSoaker, available at , and tested its effect on the alignment statistics and the results of the enrichment analyses. Both adapter trimming and duplicate removal moderately improved the strength of biological signals in RNA-seq and ChIP-seq data. Aggressive filtering of reads overlapping with low complexity regions, as defined by RepeatMasker, further improved the strength of biological signals, and the correlation between RNA-seq and microarray gene expression data. Adapter trimming and duplicates removal, coupled with filtering out reads overlapping low complexity regions, is shown to increase the quality and reliability of detecting biological signals in RNA-seq and ChIP-seq data.
Maize, a crop of global significance, is vulnerable to a variety of biotic stresses resulting in economic losses. Fusarium verticillioides (teleomorph Gibberella moniliformis) is one of the key fungal pathogens of maize, causing ear rots and stalk rots. To better understand the genetic mechanisms involved in maize defense as well as F. verticillioides virulence, a systematic investigation of the host-pathogen interaction is needed. The aim of this study was to computationally identify potential maize subnetwork modules associated with its defense response against F. verticillioides. We obtained time-course RNA-seq data from B73 maize inoculated with wild type F. verticillioides and a loss-of-virulence mutant, and subsequently established a computational pipeline for network-based comparative analysis.Specifically, we first analyzed the RNA-seq data by a cointegration-correlation-expression approach, where maize genes were jointly analyzed with known F. verticillioides virulence genes to find candidate maize genes likely associated with the defense mechanism. We predicted maize co-expression networks around the selected maize candidate genes based on partial correlation, and subsequently searched for subnetwork modules that were differentially activated when inoculated with two different fungal strains. Based on our analysis pipeline, we identified four potential maize defense subnetwork modules. Two were directly associated with maize defense response and were associated with significant GO terms such as GO:0009817 (defense response to fungus) and GO:0009620 (response to fungus). The other two predicted modules were indirectly involved in the defense response, where the most significant GO terms associated with these modules were GO:0046914 (transition metal ion binding) and GO:0046686 (response to cadmium ion). Conclusion: Through our RNA-seq data analysis, we have shown that a network-based approach can enhance our understanding of the complicated host-pathogen interactions between maize and F. verticillioides by interpreting the transcriptome data in a system-oriented manner. We expect that the proposed analytic pipeline can also be adapted for investigating potential functional modules associated with host defense response in diverse plant-pathogen interactions.
As the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) are one of the most polymorphic genes in humans. Patients carrying certain HLA alleles may develop adverse drug reactions (ADRs) after taking specific drugs. Peptides play an important role in HLA related ADRs as they are the necessary co-binders of HLAs with drugs. Many experimental data have been generated for understanding HLA-peptide binding. However, efficiently utilizing the data for understanding and accurately predicting HLA-peptide binding is challenging. Therefore, we developed a network analysis based method to understand and predict HLA-peptide binding. Methods: Qualitative Class I HLA-peptide binding data were harvested and prepared from four major databases. An HLA-peptide binding network was constructed from this dataset and modules were identified by the fast greedy modularity optimization algorithm. To examine the significance of signals in the yielded models, the modularity was compared with the modularity values generated from 1,000 random networks. The peptides and HLAs in the modules were characterized by similarity analysis. The neighbor-edges based and unbiased leverage algorithm (Nebula) was developed for predicting HLA-peptide binding. Leave-one-out (LOO) validations and two-fold cross-validations were conducted to evaluate the performance of Nebula using the constructed HLA-peptide binding network. Nine modules were identified from analyzing the HLA-peptide binding network with a highest modularity compared to all the random networks. Peptide length and functional side chains of amino acids at certain positions of the peptides were different among the modules. HLA sequences were module dependent to some extent. Nebula archived an overall prediction accuracy of 0.816 in the LOO validations and average accuracy of 0.795 in the two-fold cross-validations and outperformed the method reported in the literature. Network analysis is a useful approach for analyzing large and sparse datasets such as the HLA-peptide binding dataset. The modules identified from the network analysis clustered peptides and HLAs with similar sequences and properties of amino acids. Nebula performed well in the predictions of HLA-peptide binding. We demonstrated that network analysis coupled with Nebula is an efficient approach to understand and predict HLA-peptide binding interactions and thus, could further our understanding of ADRs.
Comprehensive capture of Adverse Events (AEs) is crucial for monitoring for side effects of a therapy while assessing efficacy. For cancer studies, the National Cancer Institute has developed the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) as a required standard for recording attributes and grading AEs. The AE assessments should be part of the Electronic Health Record (EHR) system; yet, due to patient-centric EHR design and implementation, many EHR's don't provide straightforward functions to assess ongoing AEs to indicate a resolution or a grade change for clinical trials. Methods: At UAMS, we have implemented a standards-based Adverse Event Reporting System (AERS) that is integrated with the Epic EHR and other research systems to track new and existing AEs, including automated lab result grading in a regulatory compliant manner. Within a patient's chart, providers can launch AERS, which opens the patient's ongoing AEs as default and allows providers to assess (resolution/ongoing) existing AEs. In another tab, it allows providers to create a new AE. Also, we have separated symptoms from diagnoses in the CTCAE to minimize inaccurate designation of the clinical observations. Upon completion of assessments, a physician would submit the AEs to the EHR via a Health Level 7 (HL7) message and then to other systems utilizing a Representational State Transfer Web Service. AERS currently supports CTCAE version 3 and 4 with more than 65 cancer studies and 350 patients on those studies. This type of standard integrated into the EHR aids in research and data sharing in a compliant, efficient, and safe manner.
Introduction: It is understood that cancer is a clonal disease initiated by a single cell, and that metastasis, which is the spread of cancer from the primary site, is also initiated by a single cell. The seemingly natural capability of cancer to adapt dynamically in a Darwinian manner is a primary reason for therapeutic failures. Survival advantages may be induced by cancer therapies and also occur as a result of inherent cell and microenvironmental factors. The selected "more fit" clones outmatch their competition and then become dominant in the tumor via propagation of progeny. This clonal expansion leads to relapse, therapeutic resistance and eventually death. The goal of this study is to develop and demonstrate a more detailed clonality approach by utilizing integrative genomics. Methods: Patient tumor samples were profiled by Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) and RNA-seq on an Illumina HiSeq 2500 and methylation profiling was performed on the Illumina Infinium 450K array. STAR and the Haplotype Caller were used for RNA-seq processing. Custom approaches were used for the integration of the multi-omic datasets. Reported are major enhancements to CloneViz, which now provides capabilities enabling a formal tumor multi-dimensional clonality analysis by integrating: i) DNA mutations, ii) RNA expressed mutations, and iii) DNA methylation data. RNA and DNA methylation integration were not previously possible, by CloneViz (previous version) or any other clonality method to date. This new approach, named iCloneViz (integrated CloneViz) employs visualization and quantitative methods, revealing an integrative genomic mutational dissection and traceability (DNA, RNA, epigenetics) thru the different layers of molecular structures. Conclusion: The iCloneViz approach can be used for analysis of clonal evolution and mutational dynamics of multi-omic data sets. Revealing tumor clonal complexity in an integrative and quantitative manner facilitates improved mutational characterization, understanding, and therapeutic assignments.
A wealth of protein interaction data has become available in recent years, creating an urgent need for powerful analysis techniques. In this context, the problem of finding biologically meaningful correspondences between different protein-protein interaction networks (PPIN) is of particular interest. The PPIN of a species can be compared with that of other species through the process of PPIN alignment. Such an alignment can provide insight into basic problems like species evolution and network component function determination, as well as translational problems such as target identification and elucidation of mechanisms of disease spread. Furthermore, multiple PPINs can be aligned simultaneously, expanding the analytical implications of the result. While there are several pairwise network alignment algorithms, few methods are capable of multiple network alignment. We propose SMAL, a MNA algorithm based on the philosophy of scaffold-based alignment. SMAL is capable of converting results from any global pairwise alignment algorithms into a MNA in linear time. Using this method, we have built multiple network alignments based on combining pairwise alignments from a number of publicly available (pairwise) network aligners. We tested SMAL using PPINs of eight species derived from the IntAct repository and employed a number of measures to evaluate performance. Additionally, as part of our experimental investigations, we compared the effectiveness of SMAL while aligning up to eight input PPINs, and examined the effect of scaffold network choice on the alignments. A key advantage of SMAL lies in its ability to create MNAs through the use of pairwise network aligners for which native MNA implementations do not exist. Experiments indicate that the performance of SMAL was comparable to that of the native MNA implementation of established methods such as IsoRankN and SMETANA. However, in terms of computational time, SMAL was significantly faster. SMAL was also able to retain many important characteristics of the native pairwise alignments, such as the number of aligned nodes and edges, as well as the functional and homologene similarity of aligned nodes. The speed, flexibility and the ability to retain prior correspondences as new networks are aligned, makes SMAL a compelling choice for alignment of multiple large networks.
Drug repositioning is a cost-efficient and time-saving process to drug development compared to traditional techniques. A systematic method to drug repositioning is to identify candidate drug's gene expression profiles on target disease models and determine how similar these profiles are to approved drugs. Databases such as the CMAP have been developed recently to help with systematic drug repositioning. Methods: To overcome the limitation of connectivity maps on data coverage, we constructed a comprehensive in silico drug-protein connectivity map called DMAP, which contains directed drug-to-protein effects and effect scores. The drug-to-protein effect scores are compiled from all database entries between the drug and protein have been previously observed and provide a confidence measure on the quality of such drug-to-protein effects. In DMAP, we have compiled the direct effects between 24,121 PubChem Compound ID (CID), which were mapped from 289,571 chemical entities recognized from public literature, and 5,196 reviewed Uniprot proteins. DMAP compiles a total of 438,004 chemical-to-protein effect relationships. Compared to CMAP, DMAP shows an increase of 221 folds in the number of chemicals and 1.92 fold in the number of ATC codes. Furthermore, by overlapping DMAP chemicals with the approved drugs with known indications from the TTD database and literature, we obtained 982 drugs and 622 diseases; meanwhile, we only obtained 394 drugs with known indication from CMAP. To validate the feasibility of applying new DMAP for systematic drug repositioning, we compared the performance of DMAP and the well-known CMAP database on two popular computational techniques: drug-drug-similarity-based method with leave-one-out validation and Kolmogorov-Smirnov scoring based method. In drug-drug-similarity-based method, the drug repositioning prediction using DMAP achieved an Area-Under-Curve (AUC) score of 0.82, compared with that using CMAP, AUC = 0.64. For Kolmogorov-Smirnov scoring based method, with DMAP, we were able to retrieve several drug indications which could not be retrieved using CMAP. DMAP data can be queried using the existing C2MAP server or downloaded freely at:  Reliable measurements of how drug affect disease-related proteins are critical to ongoing drug development in the genome medicine era. We demonstrated that DMAP can help drug development professionals assess drug-to-protein relationship data and improve chances of success for systematic drug repositioning efforts.
An accurate understanding of interactions among genes plays a major role in developing therapeutic intervention methods. Gene regulatory networks often contain a significant amount of uncertainty. The process of prioritizing biological experiments to reduce the uncertainty of gene regulatory networks is called experimental design. Under such a strategy, the experiments with high priority are suggested to be conducted first. The authors have already proposed an optimal experimental design method based upon the objective for modeling gene regulatory networks, such as deriving therapeutic interventions. The experimental design method utilizes the concept of mean objective cost of uncertainty (MOCU). MOCU quantifies the expected increase of cost resulting from uncertainty. The optimal experiment to be conducted first is the one which leads to the minimum expected remaining MOCU subsequent to the experiment. In the process, one must find the optimal intervention for every gene regulatory network compatible with the prior knowledge, which can be prohibitively expensive when the size of the network is large. In this paper, we propose a computationally efficient experimental design method. This method incorporates a network reduction scheme by introducing a novel cost function that takes into account the disruption in the ranking of potential experiments. We then estimate the approximate expected remaining MOCU at a lower computational cost using the reduced networks. Simulation results based on synthetic and real gene regulatory networks show that the proposed approximate method has close performance to that of the optimal method but at lower computational cost. The proposed approximate method also outperforms the random selection policy significantly. A MATLAB software implementing the proposed experimental design method is available at 
?
Dermoscopy is a highly effective and noninvasive imaging technique used in diagnosis of melanoma and other pigmented skin lesions. Many aspects of the lesion under consideration are defined in relation to the lesion border. This makes border detection one of the most important steps in dermoscopic image analysis. In current practice, dermatologists often delineate borders through a hand drawn representation based upon visual inspection. Due to the subjective nature of this technique, intra- and inter-observer variations are common. Because of this, the automated assessment of lesion borders in dermoscopic images has become an important area of study. Methods: Fast density based skin lesion border detection method has been implemented in parallel with a new parallel technology called WebCL. WebCL utilizes client side computing capabilities to use available hardware resources such as multi cores and GPUs. Developed WebCL-parallel density based skin lesion border detection method runs efficiently from internet browsers. Previous research indicates that one of the highest accuracy rates can be achieved using density based clustering techniques for skin lesion border detection. While these algorithms do have unfavorable time complexities, this effect could be mitigated when implemented in parallel. In this study, density based clustering technique for skin lesion border detection is parallelized and redesigned to run very efficiently on the heterogeneous platforms (e.g. tablets, SmartPhones, multi-core CPUs, GPUs, and fully-integrated Accelerated Processing Units) by transforming the technique into a series of independent concurrent operations. Heterogeneous computing is adopted to support accessibility, portability and multi-device use in the clinical settings. For this, we used WebCL, an emerging technology that enables a HTML5 Web browser to execute code in parallel for heterogeneous platforms. We depicted WebCL and our parallel algorithm design. In addition, we tested parallel code on 100 dermoscopy images and showed the execution speedups with respect to the serial version. Results indicate that parallel (WebCL) version and serial version of density based lesion border detection methods generate the same accuracy rates for 100 dermoscopy images, in which mean of border error is 6.94%, mean of recall is 76.66%, and mean of precision is 99.29% respectively. Moreover, WebCL version's speedup factor for 100 dermoscopy images' lesion border detection averages around ~491.2. When large amount of high resolution dermoscopy images considered in a usual clinical setting along with the critical importance of early detection and diagnosis of melanoma before metastasis, the importance of fast processing dermoscopy images become obvious. In this paper, we introduce WebCL and the use of it for biomedical image processing applications. WebCL is a javascript binding of OpenCL, which takes advantage of GPU computing from a web browser. Therefore, WebCL parallel version of density based skin lesion border detection introduced in this study can supplement expert dermatologist, and aid them in early diagnosis of skin lesions. While WebCL is currently an emerging technology, a full adoption of WebCL into the HTML5 standard would allow for this implementation to run on a very large set of hardware and software systems. WebCL takes full advantage of parallel computational resources including multi-cores and GPUs on a local machine, and allows for compiled code to run directly from the Web Browser.
Most dynamical models for genomic networks are built upon two current methodologies, one process-based and the other based on Boolean-type networks. Both are problematic when it comes to experimental design purposes in the laboratory. The first approach requires a comprehensive knowledge of the parameters involved in all biological processes a priori, whereas the results from the second method may not have a biological correspondence and thus cannot be tested in the laboratory. Moreover, the current methods cannot readily utilize existing curated knowledge databases and do not consider uncertainty in the knowledge. Therefore, a new methodology is needed that can generate a dynamical model based on available biological data, assuming uncertainty, while the results from experimental design can be examined in the laboratory. We propose a new methodology for dynamical modeling of genomic networks that can utilize the interaction knowledge provided in public databases. The model assigns discrete states for physical entities, sets priorities among interactions based on information provided in the database, and updates each interaction based on associated node states. Whenever uncertainty in dynamics arises, it explores all possible outcomes. By using the proposed model, biologists can study regulation networks that are too complex for manual analysis. The proposed approach can be effectively used for constructing dynamical models of interaction-based genomic networks without requiring a complete knowledge of all parameters affecting the network dynamics, and thus based on a small set of available data.
In the past decade, the identification of gene co-expression has become a routine part of the analysis of high-dimensional microarray data. Gene co-expression, which is mostly detected via the Pearson correlation coefficient, has played an important role in the discovery of molecular pathways and networks. Unfortunately, the presence of systematic noise in high-dimensional microarray datasets corrupts estimates of gene co-expression. Removing systematic noise from microarray data is therefore crucial. Many cleaning approaches for microarray data exist, however these methods are aimed towards improving differential expression analysis and their performances have been primarily tested for this application. To our knowledge, the performances of these approaches have never been systematically compared in the context of gene co-expression estimation. Using simulations we demonstrate that standard cleaning procedures, such as background correction and quantile normalization, fail to adequately remove systematic noise that affects gene co-expression and at times further degrade true gene co-expression. Instead we show that a global version of removal of unwanted variation (RUV), a data-driven approach, removes systematic noise but also allows the estimation of the true underlying gene-gene correlations. We compare the performance of all noise removal methods when applied to five large published datasets on gene expression in the human brain. RUV retrieves the highest gene co-expression values for sets of genes known to interact, but also provides the greatest consistency across all five datasets. We apply the method to prioritize epileptic encephalopathy candidate genes. Our work raises serious concerns about the quality of many published gene co-expression analyses. RUV provides an efficient and flexible way to remove systematic noise from high-dimensional microarray datasets when the objective is gene co-expression analysis. The RUV method as applicable in the context of gene-gene correlation estimation is available as a BioconductoR-package: RUVcorr. 
Searching for two-dimensional (2D) structural similarities is a useful tool to identify new active compounds in drug-discovery programs. However, as 2D similarity measures neglect important structural and functional features, similarity by 2D might be underestimated. In the present study, we used combined 2D and three-dimensional (3D) similarity comparisons to reveal possible new functions and/or side-effects of known bioactive compounds. We utilised more than 10,000 compounds from the SuperTarget database with known inhibition values for twelve different anti-cancer targets. We performed all-against-all comparisons resulting in 2D similarity landscapes. Among the regions with low 2D similarity scores are inhibitors of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) and inhibitors of poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP). To demonstrate that 3D landscape comparison can identify similarities, which are untraceable in 2D similarity comparisons, we analysed this region in more detail. This 3D analysis showed the unexpected structural similarity between inhibitors of VEGFR and inhibitors of PARP. Among the VEGFR inhibitors that show similarities to PARP inhibitors was Vatalanib, an oral “multi-targeted” small molecule protein kinase inhibitor being studied in phase-III clinical trials in cancer therapy. An in silico docking simulation and an in vitro HT universal colorimetric PARP assay confirmed that the VEGFR inhibitor Vatalanib exhibits off-target activity as a PARP inhibitor, broadening its mode of action. Conclusion: In contrast to the 2D-similarity search, the 3D-similarity landscape comparison identifies new functions and side effects of the known VEGFR inhibitor Vatalanib. 
Sequencing technologies provide a wealth of details in terms of genes, expression, splice variants, polymorphisms, and other features. A standard for sequencing analysis pipelines is to put genomic or transcriptomic features into a context of known functional information, but the relationships between ontology terms are often ignored. For RNA-Seq, considering genes and their genetic variants at the group level enables a convenient way to both integrate annotation data and detect small coordinated changes between experimental conditions, a known caveat of gene level analyses. We introduce the high throughput data integration tool, htsint, as an extension to the commonly used gene set enrichment frameworks. The central aim of htsint is to compile annotation information from one or more taxa in order to calculate functional distances among all genes in a specified gene space. Spectral clustering is then used to partition the genes, thereby generating functional modules. The gene space can range from a targeted list of genes, like a specific pathway, all the way to an ensemble of genomes. Given a collection of gene sets and a count matrix of transcriptomic features (e.g. expression, polymorphisms), the gene sets produced by htsint can be tested for ‘enrichment’ or conditional differences using one of a number of commonly available packages. Conclusion: The database and bundled tools to generate functional modules were designed with sequencing pipelines in mind, but the toolkit nature of htsint allows it to also be used in other areas of genomics. The software is freely available as a Python library through GitHub at 
One of the goals of the Systems Biology community is to have a detailed map of all biological interactions in an organism. One small yet important step in this direction is the creation of biological networks from post-genomic data. Bayesian networks are a very promising model for the inference of regulatory networks in Systems Biology. Usually, Bayesian networks are sampled with a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampler in the structure space. Unfortunately, conventional MCMC sampling schemes are often slow in mixing and convergence. To improve MCMC convergence, an alternative method is proposed and tested with different sets of data. Moreover, the proposed method is compared with the traditional MCMC sampling scheme. In the proposed method, a simpler and faster method for the inference of regulatory networks, Graphical Gaussian Models (GGMs), is integrated into the Bayesian network inference, trough a Hierarchical Bayesian model. In this manner, information about the structure obtained from the data with GGMs is taken into account in the MCMC scheme, thus improving mixing and convergence. The proposed method is tested with three types of data, two from simulated models and one from real data. The results are compared with the results of the traditional MCMC sampling scheme in terms of network recovery accuracy and convergence. The results show that when compared with a traditional MCMC scheme, the proposed method presents improved convergence leading to better network reconstruction with less MCMC iterations. The proposed method is a viable alternative to improve mixing and convergence of traditional MCMC schemes. It allows the use of Bayesian networks with an MCMC sampler with less iterations. The proposed method has always converged earlier than the traditional MCMC scheme. We observe an improvement in accuracy of the recovered networks for the Gaussian simulated data, but this improvement is absent for both real data and data simulated from ODE. 
One of the most important application spectrums of transcriptomic data is cancer phenotype classification. Many characteristics of transcriptomic data, such as redundant features and technical artifacts, make over-fitting commonplace. Promising classification results often fail to generalize across datasets with different sources, platforms, or preprocessing. Recently a novel differential network rank conservation (DIRAC) algorithm to characterize cancer phenotypes using transcriptomic data. DIRAC is a member of a family of algorithms that have shown useful for disease classification based on the relative expression of genes. Combining the robustness of this family’s simple decision rules with known biological relationships, this systems approach identifies interpretable, yet highly discriminate networks. While DIRAC has been briefly employed for several classification problems in the original paper, the potentials of DIRAC in cancer phenotype classification, and especially robustness against artifacts in transcriptomic data have not been fully characterized yet. In this study we thoroughly investigate the potentials of DIRAC by applying it to multiple datasets, and examine the variations in classification performances when datasets are (i) treated and untreated for batch effect; (ii) preprocessed with different techniques. We also propose the first DIRAC-based classifier to integrate multiple networks. We show that the DIRAC-based classifier is very robust in the examined scenarios. To our surprise, the trained DIRAC-based classifier even translated well to a dataset with different biological characteristics in the presence of substantial batch effects that, as shown here, plagued the standard expression value based classifier. In addition, the DIRAC-based classifier, because of the integrated biological information, also suggests pathways to target in specific subtypes, which may enhance the establishment of personalized therapy in diseases such as pediatric AML. In order to better comprehend the prediction power of the DIRAC-based classifier in general, we also performed classifications using publicly available datasets from breast and lung cancer. Furthermore, multiple well-known classification algorithms were utilized to create an ideal test bed for comparing the DIRAC-based classifier with the standard gene expression value based classifier. We observed that the DIRAC-based classifier greatly outperforms its rival. Based on our experiments with multiple datasets, we propose that DIRAC is a promising solution to the lack of generalizability in classification efforts that uses transcriptomic data. We believe that superior performances presented in this study may motivate other to initiate a new aline of research to explore the untapped power of DIRAC in a broad range of cancer types. 
Motivation: Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies have become much more efficient, allowing whole human genomes to be sequenced faster and cheaper than ever before. However, processing the raw sequence reads associated with NGS technologies requires care and sophistication in order to draw compelling inferences about phenotypic consequences of variation in human genomes. It has been shown that different approaches to variant calling from NGS data can lead to different conclusions. Ensuring appropriate accuracy and quality in variant calling can come at a computational cost. We describe our experience implementing and evaluating a group-based approach to calling variants on large numbers of whole human genomes. We explore the influence of many factors that may impact the accuracy and efficiency of group-based variant calling, including group size, the biogeographical backgrounds of the individuals who have been sequenced, and the computing environment used. We make efficient use of the Gordon supercomputer cluster at the San Diego Supercomputer Center by incorporating job-packing and parallelization considerations into our workflow while calling variants on 437 whole human genomes generated as part of large association study. We ultimately find that our workflow resulted in high-quality variant calls in a computationally efficient manner. We argue that studies like ours should motivate further investigations combining hardware-oriented advances in computing systems with algorithmic developments to tackle emerging ‘big data’ problems in biomedical research brought on by the expansion of NGS technologies. 
Codon usage plays a crucial role when recombinant proteins are expressed in different organisms. This is especially the case if the codon usage frequency of the organism of origin and the target host organism differ significantly, for example when a human gene is expressed in E. coli. Therefore, to enable or enhance efficient gene expression it is of great importance to identify rare codons in any given DNA sequence and subsequently mutate these to codons which are more frequently used in the expression host. We describe an open-source web-based application, ATGme, which can in a first step identify rare and highly rare codons from most organisms, and secondly gives the user the possibility to optimize the sequence. This application provides a simple user-friendly interface utilizing three optimization strategies: 1. one-click optimization, 2. bulk optimization (by codon-type), 3. individualized custom (codon-by-codon) optimization. ATGme is an open-source application which is freely available at: 
In clinical research prediction models are used to accurately predict the outcome of the patients based on some of their characteristics. For high-dimensional prediction models (the number of variables greatly exceeds the number of samples) the choice of an appropriate classifier is crucial as it was observed that no single classification algorithm performs optimally for all types of data. Boosting was proposed as a method that combines the classification results obtained using base classifiers, where the sample weights are sequentially adjusted based on the performance in previous iterations. Generally boosting outperforms any individual classifier, but studies with high-dimensional data showed that the most standard boosting algorithm, AdaBoost.M1, cannot significantly improve the performance of its base classier. Recently other boosting algorithms were proposed (Gradient boosting, Stochastic Gradient boosting, LogitBoost); they were shown to perform better than AdaBoost.M1 but their performance was not evaluated for high-dimensional data. In this paper we use simulation studies and real gene-expression data sets to evaluate the performance of boosting algorithms when data are high-dimensional. Our results confirm that AdaBoost.M1 can perform poorly in this setting, often failing to improve the performance of its base classifier. We provide the explanation for this and propose a modification, AdaBoost.M1.ICV, which uses cross-validated estimates of the prediction errors and outperforms the original algorithm when data are high-dimensional. The use of AdaBoost.M1.ICV is advisable when the base classifier overfits the training data: the number of variables is large, the number of samples is small, and/or the difference between the classes is large. To a lesser extent also Gradient boosting suffers from similar problems. Contrary to the findings for the low-dimensional data, shrinkage does not improve the performance of Gradient boosting when data are high-dimensional, however it is beneficial for Stochastic Gradient boosting, which outperformed the other boosting algorithms in our analyses. LogitBoost suffers from overfitting and generally performs poorly. The results show that boosting can substantially improve the performance of its base classifier also when data are high-dimensional. However, not all boosting algorithms perform equally well. LogitBoost, AdaBoost.M1 and Gradient boosting seem less useful for this type of data. Overall, Stochastic Gradient boosting with shrinkage and AdaBoost.M1.ICV seem to be the preferable choices for high-dimensional class-prediction. 
Local trend (i.e. shape) analysis of time series data reveals co-changing patterns in dynamics of biological systems. However, slow permutation procedures to evaluate the statistical significance of local trend scores have limited its applications to high-throughput time series data analysis, e.g., data from the next generation sequencing technology based studies. By extending the theories for the tail probability of the range of sum of Markovian random variables, we propose formulae for approximating the statistical significance of local trend scores. Using simulations and real data, we show that the approximate p-value is close to that obtained using a large number of permutations (starting at time points >20 with no delay and >30 with delay of at most three time steps) in that the non-zero decimals of the p-values obtained by the approximation and the permutations are mostly the same when the approximate p-value is less than 0.05. In addition, the approximate p-value is slightly larger than that based on permutations making hypothesis testing based on the approximate p-value conservative. The approximation enables efficient calculation of p-values for pairwise local trend analysis, making large scale all-versus-all comparisons possible. We also propose a hybrid approach by integrating the approximation and permutations to obtain accurate p-values for significantly associated pairs. We further demonstrate its use with the analysis of the Polymouth Marine Laboratory (PML) microbial community time series from high-throughput sequencing data and found interesting organism co-occurrence dynamic patterns. Availability: The software tool is integrated into the eLSA software package that now provides accelerated local trend and similarity analysis pipelines for time series data. The package is freely available from the eLSA website:  
Studies regarding coxsackievirus (CV) tend to focus on epidemic outbreaks, an imbalanced topology is considered to be an indication of acute infection with partial cross-immunity. In enteroviruses, a clear understanding of the characteristics of tree topology, transmission, and its demographic dynamics in viral succession and circulation are essential for identifying prevalence trends in endemic pathogens such as coxsackievirus B2 (CV-B2). This study applied a novel Bayesian evolutionary approach to elucidate the phylodynamic characteristics of CV-B2. A dataset containing 51 VP1 sequences and a dataset containing 34 partial 3Dpol sequencing were analyzed, where each dataset included Taiwan sequences isolated during 1988–2013. Four and five genotypes were determined based on the 846-nucleotide VP1 and 441-nucleotide 3Dpol (6641–7087) regions, respectively, with spatiotemporally structured topologies in both trees. Some strains with tree discordance indicated the occurrence of recombination in the region between the VP1 and 3Dpol genes. The similarities of VP1 and 3Dpol gene were 80.0 %–96.8 % and 74.7 %–91.9 %, respectively. Analyses of population dynamics using VP1 dataset indicated that the endemic CV-B2 has a small effective population size. The balance indices, high similarity, and low evolutionary rate in the VP1 region indicated mild herd immunity selection in the major capsid region. Phylodynamic analysis can reveal demographic trends and herd immunity in endemic pathogens. 
In most sequenced organisms the number of known regulatory genes (e.g., transcription factors (TFs)) vastly exceeds the number of experimentally-verified regulons that could be associated with them. At present, identification of TF regulons is mostly done through comparative genomics approaches. Such methods could miss organism-specific regulatory interactions and often require expensive and time-consuming experimental techniques to generate the underlying data. In this work, we present an efficient algorithm that aims to identify a given transcription factor’s regulon through inference of its unknown binding sites, based on the discovery of its binding motif. The proposed approach relies on computational methods that utilize gene expression data sets and knockout fitness data sets which are available or may be straightforwardly obtained for many organisms. We computationally constructed the profiles of putative regulons for the TFs LexA, PurR and Fur in E. coli K12 and identified their binding motifs. Comparisons with an experimentally-verified database showed high recovery rates of the known regulon members, and indicated good predictions for the newly found genes with high biological significance. The proposed approach is also applicable to novel organisms for predicting unknown regulons of the transcriptional regulators. Results for the hypothetical protein Dde0289 in D. alaskensis include the discovery of a Fis-type TF binding motif. The proposed motif-based regulon inference approach can discover the organism-specific regulatory interactions on a single genome, which may be missed by current comparative genomics techniques due to their limitations. 
Technological advances have enabled the analysis of very small amounts of DNA in forensic cases. However, the DNA profiles from such evidence are frequently incomplete and can contain contributions from multiple individuals. The complexity of such samples confounds the assessment of the statistical weight of such evidence. One approach to account for this uncertainty is to use a likelihood ratio framework to compare the probability of the evidence profile under different scenarios. While researchers favor the likelihood ratio framework, few open-source software solutions with a graphical user interface implementing these calculations are available for practicing forensic scientists. To address this need, we developed Lab Retriever, an open-source, freely available program that forensic scientists can use to calculate likelihood ratios for complex DNA profiles. Lab Retriever adds a graphical user interface, written primarily in JavaScript, on top of a C++ implementation of the previously published R code of Balding. We redesigned parts of the original Balding algorithm to improve computational speed. In addition to incorporating a probability of allelic drop-out and other critical parameters, Lab Retriever computes likelihood ratios for hypotheses that can include up to four unknown contributors to a mixed sample. These computations are completed nearly instantaneously on a modern PC or Mac computer. Lab Retriever provides a practical software solution to forensic scientists who wish to assess the statistical weight of evidence for complex DNA profiles. Executable versions of the program are freely available for Mac OSX and Windows operating systems. 
Two component systems (TCS) are signalling complexes manifested by a histidine kinase (receptor) and a response regulator (effector). They are the most abundant signalling pathways in prokaryotes and control a wide range of biological processes. The pairing of these two components is highly specific, often requiring costly and time-consuming experimental characterisation. Therefore, there is considerable interest in developing accurate prediction tools to lessen the burden of experimental work and cope with the ever-increasing amount of genomic information. We present a novel meta-predictor, MetaPred2CS, which is based on a support vector machine. MetaPred2CS integrates six sequence-based prediction methods: in-silico two-hybrid, mirror-tree, gene fusion, phylogenetic profiling, gene neighbourhood, and gene operon. To benchmark MetaPred2CS, we also compiled a novel high-quality training dataset of experimentally deduced TCS protein pairs for k-fold cross validation, to act as a gold standard for TCS partnership predictions. Combining individual predictions using MetaPred2CS improved performance when compared to the individual methods and in comparison with a current state-of-the-art meta-predictor. Conclusion: We have developed MetaPred2CS, a support vector machine-based metapredictor for prokaryotic TCS protein pairings. Central to the success of MetaPred2CS is a strategy of integrating individual predictors that improves the overall prediction accuracy, with the in-silico two-hybrid method contributing most to performance. MetaPred2CS outperformed other available systems in our benchmark tests, and is available online at , along with our gold standard dataset of TCS interaction pairs. 
Many problems in comparative biology are, or are thought to be, best expressed as phylogenetic “networks” as opposed to trees. In trees, vertices may have only a single parent (ancestor), while networks allow for multiple parent vertices. There are two main interpretive types of networks, “softwired” and “hardwired.” The parsimony cost of hardwired networks is based on all changes over all edges, hence must be greater than or equal to the best tree cost contained (“displayed”) by the network. This is in contrast to softwired, where each character follows the lowest parsimony cost tree displayed by the network, resulting in costs which are less than or equal to the best display tree. Neither situation is ideal since hard-wired networks are not generally biologically attractive (since individual heritable characters can have more than one parent) and softwired networks can be trivially optimized (containing the best tree for each character). Furthermore, given the alternate cost scenarios of trees and these two flavors of networks, hypothesis testing among these explanatory scenarios is impossible. A network cost adjustment (penalty) is proposed to allow phylogenetic trees and soft-wired phylogenetic networks to compete equally on a parsimony optimality basis. This cost is demonstrated for several real and simulated datasets. In each case, the favored graph representation (tree or network) matched expectation or simulation scenario. The softwired network cost regime proposed here presents a quantitative criterion for an optimality-based search procedure where trees and networks can participate in hypothesis testing simultaneously.
Third generation sequencing methods, like SMRT (Single Molecule, Real-Time) sequencing developed by Pacific Biosciences, offer much longer read length in comparison to Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) methods. Hence, they are well suited for de novo- or re-sequencing projects. Sequences generated for these purposes will not only contain reads originating from the nuclear genome, but also a significant amount of reads originating from the organelles of the target organism. These reads are usually discarded but they can also be used for an assembly of organellar replicons. The long read length supports resolution of repetitive regions and repeats within the organelles genome which might be problematic when just using short read data. Additionally, SMRT sequencing is less influenced by GC rich areas and by long stretches of the same base. We describe a workflow for a de novo assembly of the sugar beet (Beta vulgaris ssp. vulgaris) chloroplast genome sequence only based on data originating from a SMRT sequencing dataset targeted on its nuclear genome. We show that the data obtained from such an experiment are sufficient to create a high quality assembly with a higher reliability than assemblies derived from e.g. Illumina reads only. The chloroplast genome is especially challenging for de novo assembling as it contains two large inverted repeat (IR) regions. We also describe some limitations that still apply even though long reads are used for the assembly. SMRT sequencing reads extracted from a dataset created for nuclear genome (re)sequencing can be used to obtain a high quality de novo assembly of the chloroplast of the sequenced organism. Even with a relatively small overall coverage for the nuclear genome it is possible to collect more than enough reads to generate a high quality assembly that outperforms short read based assemblies. However, even with long reads it is not always possible to clarify the order of elements of a chloroplast genome sequence reliantly which we could demonstrate with Fosmid End Sequences (FES) generated with Sanger technology. Nevertheless, this limitation also applies to short read sequencing data but is reached in this case at a much earlier stage during finishing. 
So far many algorithms have been proposed towards the detection of significant genes in microarray analysis problems. Several of those approaches are freely available as R-packages though their engagement in gene expression analysis by non-bioinformaticians is usually a frustrating task. Besides, only some of those packages offer a complete suite of tools starting from initial data import and ending to analysis report. Here we present an R/Bioconductor package that implements a hybrid gene selection method along with a bunch of functions to facilitate a thorough and convenient gene expression profiling analysis. mAPKL is an open-source R/Bioconductor package that implements the mAP-KL hybrid gene selection method. The advantage of this method is that selects a small number of gene exemplars while achieving comparable classification results to other well established algorithms on a variety of datasets and dataset sizes. The mAPKL package is accompanied with extra functionalities including (i) solid data import; (ii) data sampling following a user-defined proportion; (iii) preprocessing through several normalization and transformation alternatives; (iv) classification with the aid of SVM and performance evaluation; (v) network analysis of the significant genes (exemplars), including degree of centrality, closeness, betweeness, clustering coefficient as well as the construction of an edge list table; (vi) gene annotation analysis, (vii) pathway analysis and (viii) auto-generated analysis reporting. Users are able to run a thorough gene expression analysis in a timely manner starting from raw data and concluding to network characteristics of the selected gene exemplars. Detailed instructions and example data are provided in the R package, which is freely available at Bioconductor under the GPL-2 or later license  
High-dimensional molecular measurements, e.g. gene expression data, can be linked to clinical time-to-event endpoints by Cox regression models and regularized estimation approaches, such as componentwise boosting, and can incorporate a large number of covariates as well as provide variable selection. If there is heterogeneity due to known patient subgroups, a stratified Cox model allows for separate baseline hazards in each subgroup. Variable selection will still depend on the relative stratum sizes in the data, which might be a convenience sample and not representative for future applications. Such effects need to be systematically investigated and could even help to more reliably identify components of risk prediction signatures. Correspondingly, we propose a weighted regression approach based on componentwise likelihood-based boosting which is implemented in the R package CoxBoost (). This approach focuses on building a risk prediction signature for a specific stratum by down-weighting the observations from the other strata using a range of weights. Stability of selection for specific covariates as a function of the weights is investigated by resampling inclusion frequencies, and two types of corresponding visualizations are suggested. This is illustrated for two applications with methylation and gene expression measurements from cancer patients. Conclusion: The proposed approach is meant to point out components of risk prediction signatures that are specific to the stratum of interest and components that are also important to other strata. Performance is mostly improved by incorporating down-weighted information from the other strata. This suggests more general usefulness for risk prediction signature development in data with heterogeneity due to known subgroups.
This work seeks to develop a methodology for identifying reliable biomarkers of disease activity, progression and outcome through the identification of significant associations between high-throughput flow cytometry (FC) data and interstitial lung disease (ILD) - a systemic sclerosis (SSc, or scleroderma) clinical phenotype which is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in SSc. A specific aim of the work involves developing a clinically useful screening tool that could yield accurate assessments of disease state such as the risk or presence of SSc-ILD, the activity of lung involvement and the likelihood to respond to therapeutic intervention. Ultimately this instrument could facilitate a refined stratification of SSc patients into clinically relevant subsets at the time of diagnosis and subsequently during the course of the disease and thus help in preventing bad outcomes from disease progression or unnecessary treatment side effects.The methods utilized in the work involve: (1) clinical and peripheral blood flow cytometry data (Immune Response In Scleroderma, IRIS) from consented patients followed at the Johns Hopkins Scleroderma Center. (2) machine learning (Conditional Random Forests - CRF) coupled with Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) to identify subsets of FC variables that are highly effective in classifying ILD patients; and (3) stochastic simulation to design, train and validate ILD risk screening tools. Our hybrid analysis approach (CRF-GSEA) proved successful in predicting SSc patient ILD status with a high degree of success (>82 % correct classification in validation; 79 patients in the training data set, 40 patients in the validation data set). IRIS flow cytometry data provides useful information in assessing the ILD status of SSc patients. Our new approach combining Conditional Random Forests and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis was successful in identifying a subset of flow cytometry variables to create a screening tool that proved effective in correctly identifying ILD patients in the training and validation data sets. From a somewhat broader perspective, the identification of subsets of flow cytometry variables that exhibit coordinated movement (i.e., multi-variable up or down regulation) may lead to insights into possible effector pathways and thereby improve the state of knowledge of systemic sclerosis pathogenesis. 
There has been increasing interest in coalescent models which admit multiple mergers of ancestral lineages; and to model hybridization and coalescence simultaneously. Hybrid-Lambda is a software package that simulates gene genealogies under multiple merger and Kingman’s coalescent processes within species networks or species trees. Hybrid-Lambda allows different coalescent processes to be specified for different populations, and allows for time to be converted between generations and coalescent units, by specifying a population size for each population. In addition, Hybrid-Lambda can generate simulated datasets, assuming the infinitely many sites mutation model, and compute the FST statistic. As an illustration, we apply Hybrid-Lambda to infer the time of subdivision of certain marine invertebrates under different coalescent processes. Hybrid-Lambda makes it possible to investigate biogeographic concordance among high fecundity species exhibiting skewed offspring distribution.
This study addresses a recurrent biological problem, that is to define a formal clustering structure for a set of tissues on the basis of the relative abundance of multiple alternatively spliced isoforms mRNAs generated by the same gene. To this aim, we have used a model-based clustering approach, based on a finite mixture of multivariate Gaussian densities. However, given we had more technical replicates from the same tissue for each quantitative measurement, we also employed a finite mixture of linear mixed models, with tissue-specific random effects. A panel of human tissues was analysed through quantitative real-time PCR methods, to quantify the relative amount of mRNA encoding different IGF-1 alternative splicing variants. After an appropriate, preliminary, equalization of the quantitative data, we provided an estimate of the distribution of the observed concentrations for the different IGF-1 mRNA splice variants in the cohort of tissues by employing suitable kernel density estimators. We observed that the analysed IGF-1 mRNA splice variants were characterized by multimodal distributions, which could be interpreted as describing the presence of several sub-population, i.e. potential tissue clusters. In this context, a formal clustering approach based on a finite mixture model (FMM) with Gaussian components is proposed. Due to the presence of potential dependence between the technical replicates (originated by repeated quantitative measurements of the same mRNA splice isoform in the same tissue) we have also employed the finite mixture of linear mixed models (FMLMM), which allowed to take into account this kind of within-tissue dependence. The FMM and the FMLMM provided a convenient yet formal setting for a model-based clustering of the human tissues in sub-populations, characterized by homogeneous values of concentrations of the mRNAs for one or multiple IGF-1 alternative splicing isoforms.The proposed approaches can be applied to any cohort of tissues expressing several alternatively spliced mRNAs generated by the same gene, and can overcome the limitations of clustering methods based on simple comparisons between splice isoform expression levels.
T cell epitope prediction tools and associated vaccine design algorithms have accelerated the development of vaccines for humans. Predictive tools for swine and other food animals are not as well developed, primarily because the data required to develop the tools are lacking. Here, we overcome a lack of T cell epitope data to construct swine epitope predictors by systematically leveraging available human information. Applying the “pocket profile method”, we use sequence and structural similarities in the binding pockets of human and swine major histocompatibility complex proteins to infer Swine Leukocyte Antigen (SLA) peptide binding preferences.We developed epitope-prediction matrices (PigMatrices), for three SLA class I alleles (SLA-1*0401, 2*0401 and 3*0401) and one class II allele (SLA-DRB1*0201), based on the binding preferences of the best-matched Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) pocket for each SLA pocket. The contact residues involved in the binding pockets were defined for class I based on crystal structures of either SLA (SLA-specific contacts, Ssc) or HLA supertype alleles (HLA contacts, Hc); for class II, only Hc was possible. Different substitution matrices were evaluated (PAM and BLOSUM) for scoring pocket similarity and identifying the best human match. The accuracy of the PigMatrices was compared to available online swine epitope prediction tools such as PickPocket and NetMHCpan. PigMatrices that used Ssc to define the pocket sequences and PAM30 to score pocket similarity demonstrated the best predictive performance and were able to accurately separate binders from random peptides. For SLA-1*0401 and 2*0401, PigMatrix achieved area under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUC) of 0.78 and 0.73, respectively, which were equivalent or better than PickPocket (0.76 and 0.54) and NetMHCpan version 2.4 (0.41 and 0.51) and version 2.8 (0.72 and 0.71). In addition, we developed the first predictive SLA class II matrix, obtaining an AUC of 0.73 for existing SLA-DRB1*0201 epitopes. Notably, PigMatrix achieved this level of predictive power without training on SLA binding data. Conclusion: Overall, the pocket profile method combined with binding preferences from HLA binding data shows significant promise for developing T cell epitope prediction tools for pigs. When combined with existing vaccine design algorithms, PigMatrix will be useful for developing genome-derived vaccines for a range of pig pathogens for which no effective vaccines currently exist (e.g. porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome, influenza and porcine epidemic diarrhea). 
Data volumes generated by next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies is now a major concern for both data storage and transmission. This triggered the need for more efficient methods than general purpose compression tools, such as the widely used gzip method. We present a novel reference-free method meant to compress data issued from high throughput sequencing technologies. Our approach, implemented in the software Leon, employs techniques derived from existing assembly principles. The method is based on a reference probabilistic de Bruijn Graph, built de novo from the set of reads and stored in a Bloom filter. Each read is encoded as a path in this graph, by memorizing an anchoring kmer and a list of bifurcations. The same probabilistic de Bruijn Graph is used to perform a lossy transformation of the quality scores, which allows to obtain higher compression rates without losing pertinent information for downstream analyses. Leon was run on various real sequencing datasets (whole genome, exome, RNA-seq or metagenomics). In all cases, LEON showed higher overall compression ratios than state-of-the-art compression software. On a C. elegans whole genome sequencing dataset, LEON divided the original file size by more than 20.Leon is an open source software, distributed under GNU affero GPL License, available for download at  
Quantifying gene expression by RNA-Seq has several advantages over microarrays, including greater dynamic range and gene expression estimates on an absolute, rather than a relative scale. Nevertheless, microarrays remain in widespread use, demonstrated by the ever-growing numbers of samples deposited in public repositories. We propose a novel approach to microarray analysis that attains many of the advantages of RNA-Seq. This method, called Machine Learning of Transcript Expression (MaLTE), leverages samples for which both microarray and RNA-Seq data are available, using a Random Forest to learn the relationship between the fluorescence intensity of sets of microarray probes and RNA-Seq transcript expression estimates. We trained MaLTE on data from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project, consisting of Affymetrix gene arrays and RNA-Seq from over 700 samples across a broad range of human tissues. Conclusion: This approach can be used to accurately estimate absolute expression levels from microarray data, at both gene and transcript level, which has not previously been possible. This methodology will facilitate re-analysis of archived microarray data and broaden the utility of the vast quantities of data still being generated. 
During the last decade, many scientific works have concerned the possible use of miRNA levels as diagnostic and prognostic tools for different kinds of cancer. The development of reliable classifiers requires tackling several crucial aspects, some of which have been widely overlooked in the scientific literature: the distribution of the measured miRNA expressions and the statistical uncertainty that affects the parameters that characterize a classifier. In this paper, these topics are analysed in detail by discussing a model problem, i.e. the development of a Bayesian classifier that, on the basis of the expression of miR-205, miR-21 and snRNA U6, discriminates samples into two classes of pulmonary tumors: adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas. We proved that the variance of miRNA expression triplicates is well described by a normal distribution and that triplicate averages also follow normal distributions. We provide a method to enhance a classifiers’ performance by exploiting the correlations between the class-discriminating miRNA and the expression of an additional normalized miRNA. By exploiting the normal behavior of triplicate variances and averages, invalid samples (outliers) can be identified by checking their variability via chi-square test or their displacement by the respective population mean via Student’s t-test. Finally, the normal behavior allows to optimally set the Bayesian classifier and to determine its performance and the related uncertainty. 
Alternative splicing (AS) is a post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism for gene expression regulation. Splicing decisions are affected by the combinatorial behavior of different splicing factors that bind to multiple binding sites in exons and introns. These binding sites are called splicing regulatory elements (SREs). Here we develop CoSREM (Combinatorial SRE Miner), a graph mining algorithm to discover combinatorial SREs in human exons. Our model does not assume a fixed length of SREs and incorporates experimental evidence as well to increase accuracy. CoSREM is able to identify sets of SREs and is not limited to SRE pairs as are current approaches. We identified 37 SRE sets that include both enhancer and silencer elements. We show that our results intersect with previous results, including some that are experimental. We also show that the SRE set GGGAGG and GAGGAC identified by CoSREM may play a role in exon skipping events in several tumor samples. We applied CoSREM to RNA-Seq data for multiple tissues to identify combinatorial SREs which may be responsible for exon inclusion or exclusion across tissues. Conclusion: The new algorithm can identify different combinations of splicing enhancers and silencers without assuming a predefined size or limiting the algorithm to find only pairs of SREs. Our approach opens new directions to study SREs and the roles that AS may play in diseases and tissue specificity. 
The inference of complex networks from data is a challenging problem in biological sciences, as well as in a wide range of disciplines such as chemistry, technology, economics, or sociology. The quantity and quality of the data greatly affect the results. While many methodologies have been developed for this task, they seldom take into account issues such as missing data or outlier detection and correction, which need to be properly addressed before network inference. Here we present an approach to (i) handle missing data and (ii) detect and correct outliers based on multivariate projection to latent structures. The method, called trimmed scores regression (TSR), enables network inference methods to analyse incomplete datasets by imputing the missing values coherently with the latent data structure. Furthermore, it substitutes the faulty values in a dataset by proper estimations. We provide an implementation of this approach, and show how it can be integrated with any network inference method as a preliminary data curation step. This functionality is demonstrated with a state of the art network inference method based on mutual information distance and entropy reduction, MIDER. Conclusion: The methodology presented here enables network inference methods to analyse a large number of incomplete and faulty datasets that could not be reliably analysed so far. Our comparative studies show the superiority of TSR over other missing data approaches used by practitioners. Furthermore, the method allows for outlier detection and correction. 
RNAs are attractive molecules as the biological parts for synthetic biology. In particular, the ability of conformational changes, which can be encoded in designer RNAs, enables us to create multistable molecular switches that function in biological circuits. Although various algorithms for designing such RNA switches have been proposed, the previous algorithms optimize the RNA sequences against the weighted sum of objective functions, where empirical weights among objective functions are used. In addition, an RNA design algorithm for multiple pseudoknot targets is currently not available. We developed a novel computational tool for automatically designing RNA sequences which fold into multiple target secondary structures. Our algorithm designs RNA sequences based on multi-objective genetic algorithm, by which we can explore the RNA sequences having good objective function values without empirical weight parameters among the objective functions. Our algorithm has great flexibility by virtue of this weight-free nature. We benchmarked our multi-target RNA design algorithm with the datasets of two, three, and four target structures and found that our algorithm shows better or comparable design performances compared with the previous algorithms, RNAdesign and Frnakenstein. In addition to the benchmarks with pseudoknot-free datasets, we benchmarked MODENA with two-target pseudoknot datasets and found that MODENA can design the RNAs which have the target pseudoknotted secondary structures whose free energies are close to the lowest free energy. Moreover, we applied our algorithm to a ribozyme-based ON-switch which takes a ribozyme-inactive secondary structure when the theophylline aptamer structure is assumed. Currently, MODENA is the only RNA design software which can be applied to multiple pseudoknot targets. Successful design results for the multiple targets and an RNA device indicate usefulness of our multi-objective RNA design algorithm. 
Transcription factors (TFs) act downstream of the major signalling pathways functioning as master regulators of cell fate. Their activity is tightly regulated at the transcriptional, post-transcriptional and post-translational level. Proteins modifying TF activity are not easily identified by experimental high-throughput methods. We developed a computational strategy, called Differential Multi-Information (DMI), to infer post-translational modulators of a transcription factor from a compendium of gene expression profiles (GEPs). DMI is built on the hypothesis that the modulator of a TF (i.e. kinase/phosphatases), when expressed in the cell, will cause the TF target genes to be co-expressed. On the contrary, when the modulator is not expressed, the TF will be inactive resulting in a loss of co-regulation across its target genes. DMI detects the occurrence of changes in target gene co-regulation for each candidate modulator, using a measure called Multi-Information. We validated the DMI approach on a compendium of 5,372 GEPs showing its predictive ability in correctly identifying kinases regulating the activity of 14 different transcription factors. DMI can be used in combination with experimental approaches as high-throughput screening to efficiently improve both pathway and target discovery. An on-line web-tool enabling the user to use DMI to identify post-transcriptional modulators of a transcription factor of interest che be found at  
The study of nuclear architecture using Chromosome Conformation Capture (3C) technologies is a novel frontier in biology. With further reduction in sequencing costs, the potential of Hi-C in describing nuclear architecture as a phenotype is only about to unfold. To use Hi-C for phenotypic comparisons among different cell types, conditions, or genetic backgrounds, Hi-C data processing needs to be more accessible to biologists. HiCdat provides a simple graphical user interface for data pre-processing and a collection of higher-level data analysis tools implemented in R. Data pre-processing also supports a wide range of additional data types required for in-depth analysis of the Hi-C data (e.g. RNA-Seq, ChIP-Seq, and BS-Seq). HiCdat is easy-to-use and provides solutions starting from aligned reads up to in-depth analyses. Importantly, HiCdat is focussed on the analysis of larger structural features of chromosomes, their correlation to genomic and epigenomic features, and on comparative studies. It uses simple input and output formats and can therefore easily be integrated into existing workflows or combined with alternative tools. 
The sequencing depth provided by high-throughput sequencing technologies has allowed a rise in the number of de novo sequenced genomes that could potentially be closed without further sequencing. However, genome scaffolding and closure require costly human supervision that often results in genomes being published as drafts. A number of automatic scaffolders were recently released, which improved the global quality of genomes published in the last few years. Yet, none of them reach the efficiency of manual scaffolding. Here, we present an innovative semi-automatic scaffolder that additionally helps with chimerae resolution and generates valuable contig maps and outputs for manual improvement of the automatic scaffolding. This software was tested on the newly sequenced marine cyanobacterium Synechococcus sp. WH8103 as well as two reference datasets used in previous studies, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Homo sapiens chromosome 14 (). The quality of resulting scaffolds was compared to that of three other stand-alone scaffolders: SSPACE, SOPRA and SCARPA. For all three model organisms, WiseScaffolder produced better results than other scaffolders in terms of contiguity statistics (number of genome fragments, N50, LG50, etc.) and, in the case of WH8103, the reliability of the scaffolds was confirmed by whole genome alignment against a closely related reference genome. We also propose an efficient computer-assisted strategy for manual improvement of the scaffolding, using outputs generated by WiseScaffolder, as well as for genome finishing that in our hands led to the circularization of the WH8103 genome. Conclusion: Altogether, WiseScaffolder proved more efficient than three other scaffolders for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes and is thus likely applicable to most genome projects. The scaffolding pipeline described here should be of particular interest to biologists wishing to take advantage of the high added value of complete genomes. 
RNA-seq has been widely used for genome-wide expression profiling. RNA-seq data typically consists of tens of millions of short sequenced reads from different transcripts. However, due to sequence similarity among genes and among isoforms, the source of a given read is often ambiguous. Existing approaches for estimating expression levels from RNA-seq reads tend to compromise between accuracy and computational cost. We introduce a new approach for quantifying transcript abundance from RNA-seq data. EMSAR (Estimation by Mappability-based Segmentation And Reclustering) groups reads according to the set of transcripts to which they are mapped and finds maximum likelihood estimates using a joint Poisson model for each optimal set of segments of transcripts. The method uses nearly all mapped reads, including those mapped to multiple genes. With an efficient transcriptome indexing based on modified suffix arrays, EMSAR minimizes the use of CPU time and memory while achieving accuracy comparable to the best existing methods. EMSAR is a method for quantifying transcripts from RNA-seq data with high accuracy and low computational cost. EMSAR is available at  
Peptide-spectrum matching is a common step in most data processing workflows for mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Many algorithms and software packages, both free and commercial, have been developed to address this task. However, these algorithms typically require the user to select instrument- and sample-dependent parameters, such as mass measurement error tolerances and number of missed enzymatic cleavages. In order to select the best algorithm and parameter set for a particular dataset, in-depth knowledge about the data as well as the algorithms themselves is needed. Most researchers therefore tend to use default parameters, which are not necessarily optimal. We have applied a new optimization framework for the Taverna scientific workflow management system (-utils.org/Taverna_Optimization.pdf) to find the best combination of parameters for a given scientific workflow to perform peptide-spectrum matching. The optimizations themselves are non-trivial, as demonstrated by several phenomena that can be observed when allowing for larger mass measurement errors in sequence database searches. On-the-fly parameter optimization embedded in scientific workflow management systems enables experts and non-experts alike to extract the maximum amount of information from the data. The same workflows could be used for exploring the parameter space and compare algorithms, not only for peptide-spectrum matching, but also for other tasks, such as retention time prediction. Conclusion: Using the optimization framework, we were able to learn about how the data was acquired as well as the explored algorithms. We observed a phenomenon identifying many ammonia-loss b-ion spectra as peptides with N-terminal pyroglutamate and a large precursor mass measurement error. These insights could only be gained with the extension of the common range for the mass measurement error tolerance parameters explored by the optimization framework.
Protein sequence alignment is essential for a variety of tasks such as homology modeling and active site prediction. Alignment errors remain the main cause of low-quality structure models. A bioinformatics tool to refine alignments is needed to make protein alignments more accurate. We developed the SFESA web server to refine pairwise protein sequence alignments. Compared to the previous version of SFESA, which required a set of 3D coordinates for a protein, the new server will search a sequence database for the closest homolog with an available 3D structure to be used as a template. For each alignment block defined by secondary structure elements in the template, SFESA evaluates alignment variants generated by local shifts and selects the best-scoring alignment variant. A scoring function that combines the sequence score of profile-profile comparison and the structure score of template-derived contact energy is used for evaluation of alignments. PROMALS pairwise alignments refined by SFESA are more accurate than those produced by current advanced alignment methods such as HHpred and CNFpred. In addition, SFESA also improves alignments generated by other software. SFESA is a web-based tool for alignment refinement, designed for researchers to compute, refine, and evaluate pairwise alignments with a combined sequence and structure scoring of alignment blocks. To our knowledge, the SFESA web server is the only tool that refines alignments by evaluating local shifts of secondary structure elements. The SFESA web server is available at 
Gene ontology (GO) enrichment is commonly used for inferring biological meaning from systems biology experiments. However, determining differential GO and pathway enrichment between DNA-binding experiments or using the GO structure to classify experiments has received little attention. Herein, we present a bioinformatics tool, CompGO, for identifying Differentially Enriched Gene Ontologies, called DiEGOs, and pathways, through the use of a z-score derivation of log odds ratios, and visualizing these differences at GO and pathway level. Through public experimental data focused on the cardiac transcription factor NKX2-5, we illustrate the problems associated with comparing GO enrichments between experiments using a simple overlap approach. We have developed an R/Bioconductor package, CompGO, which implements a new statistic normally used in epidemiological studies for performing comparative GO analyses and visualizing comparisons from .BED data containing genomic coordinates as well as gene lists as inputs. We justify the statistic through inclusion of experimental data and compare to the commonly used overlap method. CompGO is freely available as a R/Bioconductor package enabling easy integration into existing pipelines and is available at:  packages/release/bioc/html/CompGO.html
The function of RNA is strongly dependent on its structure, so an appropriate recognition of this structure, on every level of organization, is of great importance. One particular concern is the assessment of base-base interactions, described as the secondary structure, the knowledge of which greatly facilitates an interpretation of RNA function and allows for structure analysis on the tertiary level. The RNA secondary structure can be predicted from a sequence using in silico methods often adjusted with experimental data, or assessed from 3D structure atom coordinates. Computational approaches typically consider only canonical, Watson-Crick and wobble base pairs. Handling of non-canonical interactions, important for a full description of RNA structure, is still very difficult. We introduce our novel approach to assessing an extended RNA secondary structure, which characterizes both canonical and non-canonical base pairs, along with their type classification. It is based on predicting the RNA 3D structure from a user-provided sequence or a secondary structure that only describes canonical base pairs, and then deriving the extended secondary structure from atom coordinates. In our example implementation, this was achieved by integrating the functionality of two fully automated, high fidelity methods in a computational pipeline: RNAComposer for the 3D RNA structure prediction and RNApdbee for base-pair annotation. The presented methodology ties together existing applications for RNA 3D structure prediction and base-pair annotation. The example performance, applying RNAComposer and RNApdbee, reveals better accuracy in non-canonical base pair assessment than the compared methods that directly predict RNA secondary structure. 
?
Gene set analysis (GSA) of gene expression data can be highly powerful when the biological signal is weak compared to other sources of variability in the data. However, many gene set analysis approaches utilize permutation tests which are not appropriate for complex study designs. For example, the correlation of subjects is broken when comparing time points within a longitudinal study. Linear mixed models provide a method to analyze longitudinal studies as well as adjust for potential confounding factors and account for sources of variability that are not of primary interest. Currently, there are no known gene set analysis approaches that fully account for these study design and analysis aspects. In order to do so, we generalize the QuSAGE gene set analysis algorithm, denoted Q-Gen, and provide the necessary estimation adjustments to incorporate linear mixed model analyses. We assessed the performance of our generalized method in comparison to the original QuSAGE method in settings such as longitudinal repeated measures analysis and accounting for potential confounders. We demonstrate that the original QuSAGE method can not control for type-I error when these complexities exist. In addition to statistical appropriateness, analysis of a longitudinal influenza study suggests Q-Gen can allow for greater sensitivity when exploring a large number of gene sets. Q-Gen is an extension to the gene set analysis method of QuSAGE, and allows for linear mixed models to be applied appropriately within a gene set analysis framework. It provides GSA an added layer of flexibility that was not currently available. This flexibility allows for more appropriate statistical modeling of complex data structures that are inherent to many microarray study designs and can provide more sensitivity. 
Our study focuses on discovering gene regulatory networks from time series gene expression data using the Granger causality (GC) model. However, the number of available time points (T) usually is much smaller than the number of target genes (n) in biological datasets. The widely applied pairwise GC model (PGC) and other regularization strategies can lead to a significant number of false identifications when n>>T. In this study, we proposed a new method, viz., CGC-2SPR (CGC using two-step prior Ridge regularization) to resolve the problem by incorporating prior biological knowledge about a target gene data set. In our simulation experiments, the propose new methodology CGC-2SPR showed significant performance improvement in terms of accuracy over other widely used GC modeling (PGC, Ridge and Lasso) and MI-based (MRNET and ARACNE) methods. In addition, we applied CGC-2SPR to a real biological dataset, i.e., the yeast metabolic cycle, and discovered more true positive edges with CGC-2SPR than with the other existing methods. In our research, we noticed a “ 1+1>2” effect when we combined prior knowledge and gene expression data to discover regulatory networks. Based on causality networks, we made a functional prediction that the Abm1 gene (its functions previously were unknown) might be related to the yeast’s responses to different levels of glucose. Our research improves causality modeling by combining heterogeneous knowledge, which is well aligned with the future direction in system biology. Furthermore, we proposed a method of Monte Carlo significance estimation (MCSE) to calculate the edge significances which provide statistical meanings to the discovered causality networks. All of our data and source codes will be available under the link -causality/wiki/Home.
High-throughput bio-techniques accumulate ever-increasing amount of genomic and proteomic data. These data are far from being functionally characterized, despite the advances in gene (or gene’s product proteins) functional annotations. Due to experimental techniques and to the research bias in biology, the regularly updated functional annotation databases, i.e., the Gene Ontology (GO), are far from being complete. Given the importance of protein functions for biological studies and drug design, proteins should be more comprehensively and precisely annotated. We proposed downward Random Walks (dRW) to predict missing (or new) functions of partially annotated proteins. Particularly, we apply downward random walks with restart on the GO directed acyclic graph, along with the available functions of a protein, to estimate the probability of missing functions. To further boost the prediction accuracy, we extend dRW to dRW-kNN. dRW-kNN computes the semantic similarity between proteins based on the functional annotations of proteins; it then predicts functions based on the functions estimated by dRW, together with the functions associated with the k nearest proteins. Our proposed models can predict two kinds of missing functions: (i) the ones that are missing for a protein but associated with other proteins of interest; (ii) the ones that are not available for any protein of interest, but exist in the GO hierarchy. Experimental results on the proteins of Yeast and Human show that dRW and dRW-kNN can replenish functions more accurately than other related approaches, especially for sparse functions associated with no more than 10 proteins. Conclusion: The empirical study shows that the semantic similarity between GO terms and the ontology hierarchy play important roles in predicting protein function. The proposed dRW and dRW-kNN can serve as tools for replenishing functions of partially annotated proteins. 
DNA fingerprinting is a technique for comparing DNA patterns that has applications in a wide variety of contexts. Several commercial and freely-available tools can be used to analyze DNA fingerprint gel images; however, commercial tools are expensive and usually difficult to use; and, free tools support the basic functionality for DNA fingerprint analysis, but lack some instrumental features to obtain accurate results. In this paper, we present GelJ, a feather-weight, user-friendly, platform-independent, open-source and free tool for analyzing DNA fingerprint gel images. Some of the outstanding features of GelJ are mechanisms for accurate lane- and band-detection, several options for computing migration models, a number of band- and curve-based similarity methods, different techniques for generating dendrograms, comparison of banding patterns from different experiments, and database support. GelJ is an easy to use tool for analyzing DNA fingerprint gel images. It combines the best characteristics of both free and commercial tools: GelJ is light and simple to use (as free programs), but it also includes the necessary features to obtain precise results (as commercial programs). In addition, GelJ incorporates new functionality that is not supported by any other tool. 
Computational modeling techniques are playing increasingly important roles in advancing a systems-level mechanistic understanding of biological processes. Computer simulations guide and underpin experimental and clinical efforts. This study presents ENteric Immune Simulator (ENISI), a multiscale modeling tool for modeling the mucosal immune responses. ENISI's modeling environment can simulate in silico experiments from molecular signaling pathways to tissue level events such as tissue lesion formation. ENISI's architecture integrates multiple modeling technologies including ABM (agent-based modeling), ODE (ordinary differential equations), SDE (stochastic modeling equations), and PDE (partial differential equations). This paper focuses on the implementation and developmental challenges of ENISI. A multiscale model of mucosal immune responses during colonic inflammation, including CD4+ T cell differentiation and tissue level cell-cell interactions was developed to illustrate the capabilities, power and scope of ENISI MSM.Computational techniques are becoming increasingly powerful and modeling tools for biological systems are of greater needs. Biological systems are inherently multiscale, from molecules to tissues and from nano-seconds to a lifespan of several years or decades. ENISI MSM integrates multiple modeling technologies to understand immunological processes from signaling pathways within cells to lesion formation at the tissue level. This paper examines and summarizes the technical details of ENISI, from its initial version to its latest cutting-edge implementation. Implementation: Object-oriented programming approach is adopted to develop a suite of tools based on ENISI. Multiple modeling technologies are integrated to visualize tissues, cells as well as proteins; furthermore, performance matching between the scales is addressed. Conclusion: We used ENISI MSM for developing predictive multiscale models of the mucosal immune system during gut inflammation. Our modeling predictions dissect the mechanisms by which effector CD4+ T cell responses contribute to tissue damage in the gut mucosa following immune dysregulation.
Revealing protein complexes are important for understanding principles of cellular organization and function. High-throughput experimental techniques have produced a large amount of protein interactions, which makes it possible to predict protein complexes from protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. However, the small amount of known physical interactions may limit protein complex detection. Methods: The new PPI networks are constructed by integrating PPI datasets with the large and readily available PPI data from biomedical literature, and then the less reliable PPI between two proteins are filtered out based on semantic similarity and topological similarity of the two proteins. Finally, the supervised learning protein complex detection (SLPC), which can make full use of the information of available known complexes, is applied to detect protein complex on the new PPI networks. The experimental results of SLPC on two different categories yeast PPI networks demonstrate effectiveness of the approach: compared with the original PPI networks, the best average improvements of 4.76, 6.81 and 15.75 percentage units in the F-score, accuracy and maximum matching ratio (MMR) are achieved respectively; compared with the denoising PPI networks, the best average improvements of 3.91, 4.61 and 12.10 percentage units in the F-score, accuracy and MMR are achieved respectively; compared with ClusterONE, the start-of the-art complex detection method, on the denoising extended PPI networks, the average improvements of 26.02 and 22.40 percentage units in the F-score and MMR are achieved respectively. The experimental results show that the performances of SLPC have a large improvement through integration of new receivable PPI data from biomedical literature into original PPI networks and denoising PPI networks. In addition, our protein complexes detection method can achieve better performance than ClusterONE.
The identification of protein functional modules would be a great aid in furthering our knowledge of the principles of cellular organization. Most existing algorithms for identifying protein functional modules have a common defect -- once a protein node is assigned to a functional module, there is no chance to move the protein to the other functional modules during the follow-up processes, which lead the erroneous partitioning occurred at previous step to accumulate till to the end. In this paper, we design a new algorithm ADM (Adaptive Density Modularity) to detect protein functional modules based on adaptive density modularity. In ADM algorithm, according to the comparison between external closely associated degree and internal closely associated degree, the partitioning of a protein-protein interaction network into functional modules always evolves quickly to increase the density modularity of the network. The integration of density modularity into the new algorithm not only overcomes the drawback mentioned above, but also contributes to identifying protein functional modules more effectively. The experimental result reveals that the performance of ADM algorithm is superior to many state-of-the-art protein functional modules detection techniques in aspect of the accuracy of prediction. Moreover, the identified protein functional modules are statistically significant in terms of "Biological Process" annotated in Gene Ontology, which provides substantial support for revealing the principles of cellular organization.
Recent quality control of complex mixtures, including herbal medicines, is not limited to chemical chromatographic definition of one or two selected compounds; multivariate linear regression methods with dimension reduction or regularisation have been used to predict the bioactivity capacity from the chromatographic fingerprints of the herbal extracts. The challenge of this type of analysis requires a multi-dimensional approach at two levels: firstly each herb comprises complex mixtures of active and non-active chemical components; and secondly there are many factors relating to the growth, production, and processing of the herbal products. All these factors result in the significantly diverse concentrations of bioactive compounds in the herbal products. Therefore, it is imminent to have a predictive model with better generalisation that can accurately predict the bioactivity capacity of samples when only the chemical fingerprints data are available. In this study, the algorithm of Stacking Multivariate Linear Regression (SMLR) and a few other commonly used chemometric approaches were evaluated. They were to predict the Cluster of Differentiation 80 (CD80) expression bioactivity of a commonly used herb, Astragali Radix (AR), from the corresponding chemical chromatographic fingerprints. SMLR provides a superior prediction accuracy in comparison with the other multivariate linear regression methods of PCR, PLSR, OPLS and EN in terms of MSEtest and the goodness of prediction of test samples. SMLR is a better platform than some multivariate linear regression methods. The first advantage of SMLR is that it has better generalisation to predict the bioactivity capacity of herbal medicines from their chromatographic fingerprints. Future studies should aim to further improve the SMLR algorithm. The second advantage of SMLR is that single chemical compounds can be effectively identified as highly bioactive components which demands further CD80 bioactivity confirmation..
It has become a very important and full of challenge task to predict bacterial protein subcellular locations using computational methods. Although there exist a lot of prediction methods for bacterial proteins, the majority of these methods can only deal with single-location proteins. But unfortunately many multi-location proteins are located in the bacterial cells. Moreover, multi-location proteins have special biological functions capable of helping the development of new drugs. So it is necessary to develop new computational methods for accurately predicting subcellular locations of multi-location bacterial proteins. In this article, two efficient multi-label predictors, Gpos-ECC-mPLoc and Gneg-ECC-mPLoc, are developed to predict the subcellular locations of multi-label gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial proteins respectively. The two multi-label predictors construct the GO vectors by using the GO terms of homologous proteins of query proteins and then adopt a powerful multi-label ensemble classifier to make the final multi-label prediction. The two multi-label predictors have the following advantages: (1) they improve the prediction performance of multi-label proteins by taking the correlations among different labels into account; (2) they ensemble multiple CC classifiers and further generate better prediction results by ensemble learning; and (3) they construct the GO vectors by using the frequency of occurrences of GO terms in the typical homologous set instead of using 0/1 values. Experimental results show that Gpos-ECC-mPLoc and Gneg-ECC-mPLoc can efficiently predict the subcellular locations of multi-label gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial proteins respectively. Gpos-ECC-mPLoc and Gneg-ECC-mPLoc can efficiently improve prediction accuracy of subcellular localization of multi-location gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial proteins respectively. The online web servers for Gpos-ECC-mPLoc and Gneg-ECC-mPLoc predictors are freely accessible at -ecc-mploc/ and -ecc-mploc/ respectively.
When biomolecules physically interact, natural selection operates on them jointly. Contacting positions in protein and RNA structures exhibit correlated patterns of sequence evolution due to constraints imposed by the interaction, and molecular arms races can develop between interacting proteins in pathogens and their hosts. To evaluate how well methods developed to detect coevolving residues within proteins can be adapted for cross-species, inter-protein analysis, we used statistical criteria to quantify the performance of these methods in detecting inter-protein residues within 8 angstroms of each other in the co-crystal structures of 33 bacterial protein interactions. We also evaluated their performance for detecting known residues at the interface of a host-virus protein complex with a partially solved structure. Our quantitative benchmarking showed that all coevolutionary methods clearly benefit from alignments with many sequences. Methods that aim to detect direct correlations generally outperform other approaches. However, faster mutual information based methods are occasionally competitive in small alignments and with relaxed false positive rates. Two commonly used null distributions are anti-conservative and have high false positive rates in some scenarios, although the empirical distribution of scores performs reasonably well with deep alignments. We conclude that coevolutionary analysis of cross-species protein interactions holds great promise but requires sequencing many more species pairs. 
Multiple sequence alignments (MSA) are widely used in sequence analysis for a variety of tasks. Outlier sequences can make downstream analyses unreliable or make the alignments less accurate while they are being constructed. This paper describes a simple method for automatically detecting outliers and accompanying software called OD-seq. It is based on finding sequences whose average distance to the rest of the sequences in a dataset, is anomalous. The software can take a MSA, distance matrix or set of unaligned sequences as input. Outlier sequences are found by examining the average distance of each sequence to the rest. Anomalous average distances are then found using the interquartile range of the distribution of average distances or by bootstrapping them. The complexity of any analysis of a distance matrix is normally at least O(N2) for N sequences. This is prohibitive for large N but is reduced here by using the mBed algorithm from Clustal Omega. This reduces the complexity to O(N log(N)) which makes even very large alignments easy to analyse on a single core. We tested the ability of OD-seq to detect outliers using artificial test cases of sequences from Pfam families, seeded with sequences from other Pfam families. Using a MSA as input, OD-seq is able to detect outliers with very high sensitivity and specificity. Conclusion: OD-seq is a practical and simple method to detect outliers in MSAs. It can also detect outliers in sets of unaligned sequences, but with reduced accuracy. For medium sized alignments, of a few thousand sequences, it can detect outliers in a few seconds. Software available as -seq.tar.gz.
Biological pathways are descriptive diagrams of biological processes widely used for functional analysis of differentially expressed genes or proteins. Primary data analysis, such as quality control, normalisation, and statistical analysis, is often performed in scripting languages like R, Perl, and Python. Subsequent pathway analysis is usually performed using dedicated external applications. Workflows involving manual use of multiple environments are time consuming and error prone. Therefore, tools are needed that enable pathway analysis directly within the same scripting languages used for primary data analyses. Existing tools have limited capability in terms of available pathway content, pathway editing and visualisation options, and export file formats. Consequently, making the full-fledged pathway analysis tool PathVisio available from various scripting languages will benefit researchers. We developed PathVisioRPC, an XMLRPC interface for the pathway analysis software PathVisio. PathVisioRPC enables creating and editing biological pathways, visualising data on pathways, performing pathway statistics, and exporting results in several image formats in multiple programming environments.We demonstrate PathVisioRPC functionalities using examples in Python. Subsequently, we analyse a publicly available NCBI GEO gene expression dataset studying tumour bearing mice treated with cyclophosphamide in R. The R scripts demonstrate how calls to existing R packages for data processing and calls to PathVisioRPC can directly work together. To further support R users, we have created RPathVisio simplifying the use of PathVisioRPC in this environment. We have also created a pathway module for the microarray data analysis portal ArrayAnalysis.org that calls the PathVisioRPC interface to perform pathway analysis. This module allows users to use PathVisio functionality online without having to download and install the software and exemplifies how the PathVisioRPC interface can be used by data analysis pipelines for functional analysis of processed genomics data. PathVisioRPC enables data visualisation and pathway analysis directly from within various analytical environments used for preliminary analyses. It supports the use of existing pathways from WikiPathways or pathways created using the RPC itself. It also enables automation of tasks performed using PathVisio, making it useful to PathVisio users performing repeated visualisation and analysis tasks. PathVisioRPC is freely available for academic and commercial use at  
Membrane proteins represent over 25 % of human protein genes and account for more than 60 % of drug targets due to their accessibility from the extracellular environment. The increasing number of available crystal structures of these proteins in the Protein Data Bank permits an initial estimation of their structural properties. Description: We have developed two web servers—TMalphaDB for α-helix bundles and TMbetaDB for β-barrels—to analyse the growing repertoire of available crystal structures of membrane proteins. TMalphaDB and TMbetaDB permit to search for these specific sequence motifs in a non-redundant structure database of transmembrane segments and quantify structural parameters such as ϕ and ψ backbone dihedral angles, χ1 side chain torsion angle, unit bend and unit twist. The structural information offered by TMalphaDB and TMbetaDB permits to quantify structural distortions induced by specific sequence motifs, and to elucidate their role in the 3D structure. This specific structural information has direct implications in homology modeling of the growing sequences of membrane proteins lacking experimental structure. TMalphaDB and TMbetaDB are freely available at  and 
In many domains, scientists build complex simulators of natural phenomena that encode their hypotheses about the underlying processes. These simulators can be deterministic or stochastic, fast or slow, constrained or unconstrained, and so on. Optimizing the simulators with respect to a set of parameter values is common practice, resulting in a single parameter setting that minimizes an objective subject to constraints. We propose algorithms for post optimization posterior evaluation (POPE) of simulators. The algorithms compute and visualize all simulations that can generate results of the same or better quality than the optimum, subject to constraints. These optimization posteriors are desirable for a number of reasons among which are easy interpretability, automatic parameter sensitivity and correlation analysis, and posterior predictive analysis. Our algorithms are simple extensions to an existing simulation-based inference framework called approximate Bayesian computation. POPE is applied two biological simulators: a fast and stochastic simulator of stem-cell cycling and a slow and deterministic simulator of tumor growth patterns. POPE allows the scientist to explore and understand the role that constraints, both on the input and the output, have on the optimization posterior. As a Bayesian inference procedure, POPE provides a rigorous framework for the analysis of the uncertainty of an optimal simulation parameter setting.
Scoring DNA sequences against Position Weight Matrices (PWMs) is a widely adopted method to identify putative transcription factor binding sites. While common bioinformatics tools produce scores that can reflect the binding strength between a specific transcription factor and the DNA, these scores are not directly comparable between different transcription factors. Other methods, including p-value associated approaches (Touzet H, Varré J-S. Efficient and accurate p-value computation for position weight matrices. Algorithms Mol Biol. 2007;2(1510.1186):1748–7188), provide more rigorous ways to identify potential binding sites, but their results are difficult to interpret in terms of binding energy, which is essential for the modeling of transcription factor binding dynamics and enhancer activities. Here, we provide two different ways to find the scaling parameter λ that allows us to infer binding energy from a PWM score. The first approach uses a PWM and background genomic sequence as input to estimate λ for a specific transcription factor, which we applied to show that λ distributions for different transcription factor families correspond with their DNA binding properties. Our second method can reliably convert λ between different PWMs of the same transcription factor, which allows us to directly compare PWMs that were generated by different approaches. Conclusion: These two approaches provide computationally efficient ways to scale PWM scores and estimate the strength of transcription factor binding sites in quantitative studies of binding dynamics. Their results are consistent with each other and previous reports in most of cases. 
The cascade computer model (CCM) was designed as a machine-learning feature platform for prediction of drug diffusivity from the mucoadhesive formulations. Three basic models (the statistical regression model, the K nearest neighbor model and the modified version of the back propagation neural network) in CCM operate sequentially in close collaboration with each other, employing the estimated value obtained from the afore-positioned base model as an input value to the next-positioned base model in the cascade.The effects of various parameters on the pharmacological efficacy of a female controlled drug delivery system (FcDDS) intended for prevention of women from HIV-1 infection were evaluated using an in vitro apparatus “Simulant Vaginal System” (SVS). We used computer simulations to explicitly examine the changes in drug diffusivity from FcDDS and determine the prognostic potency of each variable for in vivo prediction of formulation efficacy. The results obtained using the CCM approach were compared with those from individual multiple regression model. CCM significantly lowered the percentage mean error (PME) and enhanced r2 values as compared with those from the multiple regression models. It was noted that CCM generated the PME value of 21.82 at 48169 epoch iterations, which is significantly improved from the PME value of 29.91 % at 118344 epochs by the back propagation network model. The results of this study indicated that the sequential ensemble of the classifiers allowed for an accurate prediction of the domain with significantly lowered variance and considerably reduces the time required for training phase. Conclusion: CCM is accurate, easy to operate, time and cost-effective, and thus, can serve as a valuable tool for prediction of drug diffusivity from mucoadhesive formulations. CCM may yield new insights into understanding how drugs are diffused from the carrier systems and exert their efficacies under various clinical conditions.
Detecting and quantifying isoforms from RNA-seq data is an important but challenging task. The problem is often ill-posed, particularly at low coverage. One promising direction is to exploit several samples simultaneously. We propose a new method for solving the isoform deconvolution problem jointly across several samples. We formulate a convex optimization problem that allows to share information between samples and that we solve efficiently. We demonstrate the benefits of combining several samples on simulated and real data, and show that our approach outperforms pooling strategies and methods based on integer programming. Conclusion: Our convex formulation to jointly detect and quantify isoforms from RNA-seq data of multiple related samples is a computationally efficient approach to leverage the hypotheses that some isoforms are likely to be present in several samples. The software and source code are available at  
Multiple high-throughput molecular profiling by omics technologies can be collected for the same individuals. Combining these data, rather than exploiting them separately, can significantly increase the power of clinically relevant patients subclassifications. We propose a multi-view approach in which the information from different data layers (views) is integrated at the levels of the results of each single view clustering iterations. It works by factorizing the membership matrices in a late integration manner. We evaluated the effectiveness and the performance of our method on six multi-view cancer datasets. In all the cases, we found patient sub-classes with statistical significance, identifying novel sub-groups previously not emphasized in literature. Our method performed better as compared to other multi-view clustering algorithms and, unlike other existing methods, it is able to quantify the contribution of single views on the final results. Conclusion: Our observations suggest that integration of prior information with genomic features in the subtyping analysis is an effective strategy in identifying disease subgroups. The methodology is implemented in R and the source code is available online at -multi-view-genomic-data-integration-methodology/. 
Testing dependence/correlation of two variables is one of the fundamental tasks in statistics. In this work, we proposed a new way of testing nonlinear dependence between two continuous variables (X and Y). We addressed this research question by using CANOVA (continuous analysis of variance, software available at ). In the CANOVA framework, we first defined a neighborhood for each data point related to its X value, and then calculated the variance of the Y value within the neighborhood. Finally, we performed permutations to evaluate the significance of the observed values within the neighborhood variance. To evaluate the strength of CANOVA compared to six other methods, we performed extensive simulations to explore the relationship between methods and compared the false positive rates and statistical power using both simulated and real datasets (kidney cancer RNA-seq dataset). We concluded that CANOVA is an efficient method for testing nonlinear correlation with several advantages in real data applications. 
Gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (GC-MS) is one of the technologies widely used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of small molecules. In particular, GC coupled to single quadrupole MS can be utilized for targeted analysis by selected ion monitoring (SIM). However, to our knowledge, there are no software tools specifically designed for analysis of GC-SIM-MS data. In this paper, we introduce a new R/Bioconductor package called SIMAT for quantitative analysis of the levels of targeted analytes. SIMAT provides guidance in choosing fragments for a list of targets. This is accomplished through an optimization algorithm that has the capability to select the most appropriate fragments from overlapping chromatographic peaks based on a pre-specified library of background analytes. The tool also allows visualization of the total ion chromatograms (TIC) of runs and extracted ion chromatograms (EIC) of analytes of interest. Moreover, retention index (RI) calibration can be performed and raw GC-SIM-MS data can be imported in netCDF or NIST mass spectral library (MSL) formats. We evaluated the performance of SIMAT using two GC-SIM-MS datasets obtained by targeted analysis of: (1) plasma samples from 86 patients in a targeted metabolomic experiment; and (2) mixtures of internal standards spiked in plasma samples at varying concentrations in a method development study. Our results demonstrate that SIMAT offers alternative solutions to AMDIS and MetaboliteDetector to achieve accurate detection of targets and estimation of their relative intensities by analysis of GC-SIM-MS data. We introduce a new R package called SIMAT that allows the selection of the optimal set of fragments and retention time windows for target analytes in GC-SIM-MS based analysis. Also, various functions and algorithms are implemented in the tool to: (1) read and import raw data and spectral libraries; (2) perform GC-SIM-MS data preprocessing; and (3) plot and visualize EICs and TICs. 
Chromatin conformation capture with high-throughput sequencing (Hi-C) is a technique that measures the in vivo intensity of interactions between all pairs of loci in the genome. Most conventional analyses of Hi-C data focus on the detection of statistically significant interactions. However, an alternative strategy involves identifying significant changes in the interaction intensity (i.e., differential interactions) between two or more biological conditions. This is more statistically rigorous and may provide more biologically relevant results. Here, we present the diffHic software package for the detection of differential interactions from Hi-C data. diffHic provides methods for read pair alignment and processing, counting into bin pairs, filtering out low-abundance events and normalization of trended or CNV-driven biases. It uses the statistical framework of the edgeR package to model biological variability and to test for significant differences between conditions. Several options for the visualization of results are also included. The use of diffHic is demonstrated with real Hi-C data sets. Performance against existing methods is also evaluated with simulated data. On real data, diffHic is able to successfully detect interactions with significant differences in intensity between biological conditions. It also compares favourably to existing software tools on simulated data sets. These results suggest that diffHic is a viable approach for differential analyses of Hi-C data. 
Identifying periodically expressed genes across different processes (e.g. the cell and metabolic cycles, circadian rhythms, etc) is a central problem in computational biology. Biological time series may contain (multiple) unknown signal shapes of systemic relevance, imperfections like noise, damping, and trending, or limited sampling density. While there exist methods for detecting periodicity, their design biases (e.g. toward a specific signal shape) can limit their applicability in one or more of these situations. Methods: We present in this paper a novel method, SW1PerS, for quantifying periodicity in time series in a shape-agnostic manner and with resistance to damping. The measurement is performed directly, without presupposing a particular pattern, by evaluating the circularity of a high-dimensional representation of the signal. SW1PerS is compared to other algorithms using synthetic data and performance is quantified under varying noise models, noise levels, sampling densities, and signal shapes. Results on biological data are also analyzed and compared. On the task of periodic/not-periodic classification, using synthetic data, SW1PerS outperforms all other algorithms in the low-noise regime. SW1PerS is shown to be the most shape-agnostic of the evaluated methods, and the only one to consistently classify damped signals as highly periodic. On biological data, and for several experiments, the lists of top 10% genes ranked with SW1PerS recover up to 67% of those generated with other popular algorithms. Moreover, the list of genes from data on the Yeast metabolic cycle which are highly-ranked only by SW1PerS, contains evidently non-cosine patterns (e.g. ECM33, CDC9, SAM1,2 and MSH6) with highly periodic expression profiles. In data from the Yeast cell cycle SW1PerS identifies genes not preferred by other algorithms, hence not previously reported as periodic, but found in other experiments such as the universal growth rate response of Slavov. These genes are BOP3, CDC10, YIL108W, YER034W, MLP1, PAC2 and RTT101. In biological systems with low noise, i.e. where periodic signals with interesting shapes are more likely to occur, SW1PerS can be used as a powerful tool in exploratory analyses. Indeed, by having an initial set of periodic genes with a rich variety of signal types, pattern/shape information can be included in the study of systems and the generation of hypotheses regarding the structure of gene regulatory networks. 
In structural bioinformatics, there is an increasing interest in identifying and understanding the evolution of local protein structures regarded as key structural or functional protein building blocks. A central need is then to compare these, possibly short, fragments by measuring efficiently and accurately their (dis)similarity. Progress towards this goal has given rise to scores enabling to assess the strong similarity of fragments. Yet, there is still a lack of more progressive scores, with meaningful intermediate values, for the comparison, retrieval or clustering of distantly related fragments. We introduce here the Amplitude Spectrum Distance (ASD), a novel way of comparing protein fragments based on the discrete Fourier transform of their Cα distance matrix. Defined as the distance between their amplitude spectra, ASD can be computed efficiently and provides a parameter-free measure of the global shape dissimilarity of two fragments. ASD inherits from nice theoretical properties, making it tolerant to shifts, insertions, deletions, circular permutations or sequence reversals while satisfying the triangle inequality. The practical interest of ASD with respect to RMSD, RMSDd, BC and TM scores is illustrated through zinc finger retrieval experiments and concrete structure examples. The benefits of ASD are also illustrated by two additional clustering experiments: domain linkers fragments and complementarity-determining regions of antibodies. Taking advantage of the Fourier transform to compare fragments at a global shape level, ASD is an objective and progressive measure taking into account the whole fragments. Its practical computation time and its properties make ASD particularly relevant for applications requiring meaningful measures on distantly related protein fragments, such as similar fragments retrieval asking for high recalls as shown in the experiments, or for any application taking also advantage of triangle inequality, such as fragments clustering.ASD program and source code are freely available at:  
Selective pressures at the DNA level shape genes into profiles consisting of patterns of rapidly evolving sites and sites withstanding change. These profiles remain detectable even when protein sequences become extensively diverged. A common task in molecular biology is to infer functional, structural or evolutionary relationships by querying a database using an algorithm. However, problems arise when sequence similarity is low. This study presents an algorithm that uses the evolutionary rate at codon sites, the dN/dS (ω) parameter, coupled to a substitution matrix as an alignment metric for detecting distantly related proteins. The algorithm, called BLOSUM-FIRE couples a newer and improved version of the original FIRE (Functional Inference using Rates of Evolution) algorithm with an amino acid substitution matrix in a dynamic scoring function. The enigmatic hepatitis B virus X protein was used as a test case for BLOSUM-FIRE and its associated database EvoDB. The evolutionary rate based approach was coupled with a conventional BLOSUM substitution matrix. The two approaches are combined in a dynamic scoring function, which uses the selective pressure to score aligned residues. The dynamic scoring function is based on a coupled additive approach that scores aligned sites based on the level of conservation inferred from the ω values. Evaluation of the accuracy of this new implementation, BLOSUM-FIRE, using MAFFT alignment as reference alignments has shown that it is more accurate than its predecessor FIRE. Comparison of the alignment quality with widely used algorithms (MUSCLE, T-COFFEE, and CLUSTAL Omega) revealed that the BLOSUM-FIRE algorithm performs as well as conventional algorithms. Its main strength lies in that it provides greater potential for aligning divergent sequences and addresses the problem of low specificity inherent in the original FIRE algorithm. The utility of this algorithm is demonstrated using the Hepatitis B virus X (HBx) protein, a protein of unknown function, as a test case. Conclusion: This study describes the utility of an evolutionary rate based approach coupled to the BLOSUM62 amino acid substitution matrix in inferring protein domain function. We demonstrate that such an approach is robust and performs as well as an array of conventional algorithms.
Computational and visual data analysis for genomics has traditionally involved a combination of tools and resources, of which the most ubiquitous consist of genome browsers, focused mainly on integrative visualization of large numbers of big datasets, and computational environments, focused on data modeling of a small number of moderately sized datasets. Workflows that involve the integration and exploration of multiple heterogeneous data sources, small and large, public and user specific have been poorly addressed by these tools. In our previous work, we introduced Epiviz, which bridges the gap between the two types of tools, simplifying these workflows. In this paper we expand on the design decisions behind Epiviz, and introduce a series of new advanced features that further support the type of interactive exploratory workflow we have targeted. We discuss three ways in which Epiviz advances the field of genomic data analysis: 1) it brings code to interactive visualizations at various different levels; 2) takes the first steps in the direction of collaborative data analysis by incorporating user plugins from source control providers, as well as by allowing analysis states to be shared among the scientific community; 3) combines established analysis features that have never before been available simultaneously in a genome browser. In our discussion section, we present security implications of the current design, as well as a series of limitations and future research steps. Since many of the design choices of Epiviz are novel in genomics data analysis, this paper serves both as a document of our own approaches with lessons learned, as well as a start point for future efforts in the same direction for the genomics community.
Several tools have been developed to enable biologists to perform initial browsing and exploration of sequencing data. However the computational tool set for further analyses often requires significant computational expertise to use and many of the biologists with the knowledge needed to interpret these data must rely on programming experts. We present VisRseq, a framework for analysis of sequencing datasets that provides a computationally rich and accessible framework for integrative and interactive analyses without requiring programming expertise. We achieve this aim by providing R apps, which offer a semi-auto generated and unified graphical user interface for computational packages in R and repositories such as Bioconductor. To address the interactivity limitation inherent in R libraries, our framework includes several native apps that provide exploration and brushing operations as well as an integrated genome browser. The apps can be chained together to create more powerful analysis workflows. To validate the usability of VisRseq for analysis of sequencing data, we present two case studies performed by our collaborators and report their workflow and insights.
We present a physically-based computational model of the light sheet fluorescence microscope (LSFM). Based on Monte Carlo ray tracing and geometric optics, our method simulates the operational aspects and image formation process of the LSFM. This simulated, in silico LSFM creates synthetic images of digital fluorescent specimens that can resemble those generated by a real LSFM, as opposed to established visualization methods producing visually-plausible images. We also propose an accurate fluorescence rendering model which takes into account the intrinsic characteristics of fluorescent dyes to simulate the light interaction with fluorescent biological specimen. We demonstrate first results of our visualization pipeline to a simplified brain tissue model reconstructed from the somatosensory cortex of a young rat. The modeling aspects of the LSFM units are qualitatively analysed, and the results of the fluorescence model were quantitatively validated against the fluorescence brightness equation and characteristic emission spectra of different fluorescent dyes. AMS subject classification: Modelling and simulation
Biomedical image processing methods require users to optimise input parameters to ensure high-quality output. This presents two challenges. First, it is difficult to optimise multiple input parameters for multiple input images. Second, it is difficult to achieve an understanding of underlying algorithms, in particular, relationships between input and output. We present a visualisation method that transforms users' ability to understand algorithm behaviour by integrating input and output, and by supporting exploration of their relationships. We discuss its application to a colour deconvolution technique for stained histology images and show how it enabled a domain expert to identify suitable parameter values for the deconvolution of two types of images, and metrics to quantify deconvolution performance. It also enabled a breakthrough in understanding by invalidating an underlying assumption about the algorithm. The visualisation method presented here provides analysis capability for multiple inputs and outputs in biomedical image processing that is not supported by previous analysis software. The analysis supported by our method is not feasible with conventional trial-and-error approaches.
The volume of complete bacterial genome sequence data available to comparative genomics researchers is rapidly increasing. However, visualizations in comparative genomics--which aim to enable analysis tasks across collections of genomes--suffer from visual scalability issues. While large, multi-tiled and high-resolution displays have the potential to address scalability issues, new approaches are needed to take advantage of such environments, in order to enable the effective visual analysis of large genomics datasets. In this paper, we present Bacterial Gene Neighborhood Investigation Environment, or BactoGeNIE, a novel and visually scalable design for comparative gene neighborhood analysis on large display environments. We evaluate BactoGeNIE through a case study on close to 700 draft Escherichia coli genomes, and present lessons learned from our design process. BactoGeNIE accommodates comparative tasks over substantially larger collections of neighborhoods than existing tools and explicitly addresses visual scalability. Given current trends in data generation, scalable designs of this type may inform visualization design for large-scale comparative research problems in genomics.
To understand the molecular mechanisms that give rise to a protein's function, biologists often need to (i) find and access all related atomic-resolution 3D structures, and (ii) map sequence-based features (e.g., domains, single-nucleotide polymorphisms, post-translational modifications) onto these structures. To streamline these processes we recently developed Aquaria, a resource offering unprecedented access to protein structure information based on an all-against-all comparison of SwissProt and PDB sequences. In this work, we provide a requirements analysis for several frequently occuring tasks in molecular biology and describe how design choices in Aquaria meet these requirements. Finally, we show how the interface can be used to explore features of a protein and gain biologically meaningful insights in two case studies conducted by domain experts. The user interface design of Aquaria enables biologists to gain unprecedented access to molecular structures and simplifies the generation of insight. The tasks involved in mapping sequence features onto structures can be conducted easier and faster using Aquaria.
Large-scale genome projects have paved the way to microbial pan-genome analyses. Pan-genomes describe the union of all genes shared by all members of the species or taxon under investigation. They offer a framework to assess the genomic diversity of a given collection of individual genomes and moreover they help to consolidate gene predictions and annotations. The computation of pan-genomes is often a challenge, and many techniques that use a global alignment-independent approach run the risk of not separating paralogs from orthologs. Also alignment-based approaches which take the gene neighbourhood into account often need additional manual curation of the results. This is quite time consuming and so far there is no visualisation tool available that offers an interactive GUI for the pan-genome to support curating pan-genomic computations or annotations of orthologous genes. We introduce Pan-Tetris, a Java based interactive software tool that provides a clearly structured and suitable way for the visual inspection of gene occurrences in a pan-genome table. The main features of Pan-Tetris are a standard coordinate based presentation of multiple genomes complemented by easy to use tools compensating for algorithmic weaknesses in the pan-genome generation workflow. We demonstrate an application of Pan-Tetris to the pan-genome of Staphylococcus aureus. Pan-Tetris is currently the only interactive pan-genome visualisation tool. Pan-Tetris is available from 
Histology images comprise one of the important sources of knowledge for phenotyping studies in systems biology. However, the annotation and analyses of histological data have remained a manual, subjective and relatively low-throughput process. We introduce Graph based Histology Image Explorer (GRAPHIE)-a visual analytics tool to explore, annotate and discover potential relationships in histology image collections within a biologically relevant context. The design of GRAPHIE is guided by domain experts' requirements and well-known InfoVis mantras. By representing each image with informative features and then subsequently visualizing the image collection with a graph, GRAPHIE allows users to effectively explore the image collection. The features were designed to capture localized morphological properties in the given tissue specimen. More importantly, users can perform feature selection in an interactive way to improve the visualization of the image collection and the overall annotation process. Finally, the annotation allows for a better prospective examination of datasets as demonstrated in the users study. Thus, our design of GRAPHIE allows for the users to navigate and explore large collections of histology image datasets. We demonstrated the usefulness of our visual analytics approach through two case studies. Both of the cases showed efficient annotation and analysis of histology image collection.
Though cluster analysis has become a routine analytic task for bioinformatics research, it is still arduous for researchers to assess the quality of a clustering result. To select the best clustering method and its parameters for a dataset, researchers have to run multiple clustering algorithms and compare them. However, such a comparison task with multiple clustering results is cognitively demanding and laborious. In this paper, we present XCluSim, a visual analytics tool that enables users to interactively compare multiple clustering results based on the Visual Information Seeking Mantra. We build a taxonomy for categorizing existing techniques of clustering results visualization in terms of the Gestalt principles of grouping. Using the taxonomy, we choose the most appropriate interactive visualizations for presenting individual clustering results from different types of clustering algorithms. The efficacy of XCluSim is shown through case studies with a bioinformatician. Compared to other relevant tools, XCluSim enables users to compare multiple clustering results in a more scalable manner. Moreover, XCluSim supports diverse clustering algorithms and dedicated visualizations and interactions for different types of clustering results, allowing more effective exploration of details on demand. Through case studies with a bioinformatics researcher, we received positive feedback on the functionalities of XCluSim, including its ability to help identify stably clustered items across multiple clustering results.
?
Tumorigenesis is an evolutionary process by which tumor cells acquire mutations through successive diversification and differentiation. There is much interest in reconstructing this process of evolution due to its relevance to identifying drivers of mutation and predicting future prognosis and drug response. Efforts are challenged by high tumor heterogeneity, though, both within and among patients. In prior work, we showed that this heterogeneity could be turned into an advantage by computationally reconstructing models of cell populations mixed to different degrees in distinct tumors. Such mixed membership model approaches, however, are still limited in their ability to dissect more than a few well-conserved cell populations across a tumor data set. We present a method to improve on current mixed membership model approaches by better accounting for conserved progression pathways between subsets of cancers, which imply a structure to the data that has not previously been exploited. We extend our prior methods, which use an interpretation of the mixture problem as that of reconstructing simple geometric objects called simplices, to instead search for structured unions of simplices called simplicial complexes that one would expect to emerge from mixture processes describing branches along an evolutionary tree. We further improve on the prior work with a novel objective function to better identify mixtures corresponding to parsimonious evolutionary tree models. We demonstrate that this approach improves on our ability to accurately resolve mixtures on simulated data sets and demonstrate its practical applicability on a large RNASeq tumor data set. Better exploiting the expected geometric structure for mixed membership models produced from common evolutionary trees allows us to quickly and accurately reconstruct models of cell populations sampled from those trees. In the process, we hope to develop a better understanding of tumor evolution as well as other biological problems that involve interpreting genomic data gathered from heterogeneous populations of cells. 
Understanding the architecture and function of RNA molecules requires methods for comparing and analyzing their tertiary and quaternary structures. While structural superposition of short RNAs is achievable in a reasonable time, large structures represent much bigger challenge. Therefore, we have developed a fast and accurate algorithm for RNA pairwise structure superposition called SETTER and implemented it in the SETTER web server. However, though biological relationships can be inferred by a pairwise structure alignment, key features preserved by evolution can be identified only from a multiple structure alignment. Thus, we extended the SETTER algorithm to the alignment of multiple RNA structures and developed the MultiSETTER algorithm. In this paper, we present the updated version of the SETTER web server that implements a user friendly interface to the MultiSETTER algorithm. The server accepts RNA structures either as the list of PDB IDs or as user-defined PDB files. After the superposition is computed, structures are visualized in 3D and several reports and statistics are generated. Conclusion: To the best of our knowledge, the MultiSETTER web server is the first publicly available tool for a multiple RNA structure alignment. The MultiSETTER server offers the visual inspection of an alignment in 3D space which may reveal structural and functional relationships not captured by other multiple alignment methods based either on a sequence or on secondary structure motifs.
Estimating the phylogenetic position of bacterial and archaeal organisms by genetic sequence comparisons is considered as the gold-standard in taxonomy. This is also a way to identify the species of origin of the sequence. The quality of the reference database used in such analyses is crucial: the database must reflect the up-to-date bacterial nomenclature and accurately indicate the species of origin of its sequences. Description: leBIBIQBPP is a web tool taking as input a series of nucleotide sequences belonging to one of a set of reference markers (e.g., SSU rRNA, rpoB, groEL2) and automatically retrieving closely related sequences, aligning them, and performing phylogenetic reconstruction using an approximate maximum likelihood approach. The system returns a set of quality parameters and, if possible, a suggested taxonomic assigment for the input sequences. The reference databases are extracted from GenBank and present four degrees of stringency, from the “superstringent” degree (one type strain per species) to the loosely parsed degree (“lax” database). A set of one hundred to more than a thousand sequences may be analyzed at a time. The speed of the process has been optimized through careful hardware selection and database design. Conclusion: leBIBIQBPP is a powerful tool helping biologists to position bacterial or archaeal sequence commonly used markers in a phylogeny. It is a diagnostic tool for clinical, industrial and environmental microbiology laboratory, as well as an exploratory tool for more specialized laboratories. Its main advantages, relatively to comparable systems are: i) the use of a broad set of databases covering diverse markers with various degrees of stringency; ii) the use of an approximate Maximum Likelihood approach for phylogenetic reconstruction; iii) a speed compatible with on-line usage; and iv) providing fully documented results to help the user in decision making. 
Today’s modern research of B and T cell antigen receptors (the immunoglobulins (IG) or antibodies and T cell receptors (TR)) forms the basis for detailed analyses of the human adaptive immune system. For instance, insights in the state of the adaptive immune system provide information that is essentially important in monitoring transplantation processes and the regulation of immune suppressiva. In this context, algorithms and tools are necessary for analyzing the IG and TR diversity on nucleotide as well as on amino acid sequence level, identifying highly proliferated clonotypes, determining the diversity of the cell repertoire found in a sample, comparing different states of the human immune system, and visualizing all relevant information. We here present IMEX, a software framework for the detailed characterization and visualization of the state of human IG and TR repertoires. IMEX offers a broad range of algorithms for statistical analysis of IG and TR data, CDR and V-(D)-J analysis, diversity analysis by calculating the distribution of IG and TR, calculating primer efficiency, and comparing multiple data sets. We use a mathematical model that is able to describe the number of unique clonotypes in a sample taking into account the true number of unique sequences and read errors; we heuristically optimize the parameters of this model. IMEX uses IMGT/HighV-QUEST analysis outputs and includes methods for splitting and merging to enable the submission to this portal and to combine the outputs results, respectively. All calculation results can be visualized and exported. Conclusion: IMEX is an user-friendly and flexible framework for performing clonality experiments based on CDR and V-(D)-J rearranged regions, diversity analysis, primer efficiency, and various different visualization experiments. Using IMEX, various immunological reactions and alterations can be investigated in detail. IMEX is freely available for Windows and Unix platforms at -hagenberg.at/immunexplorer/. 
Conventional pairwise sequence comparison software algorithms are being used to process much larger datasets than they were originally designed for. This can result in processing bottlenecks that limit software capabilities or prevent full use of the available hardware resources. Overcoming the barriers that limit the efficient computational analysis of large biological sequence datasets by retrofitting existing algorithms or by creating new applications represents a major challenge for the bioinformatics community. We have developed C libraries for pairwise sequence comparison within diverse architectures, ranging from commodity systems to high performance and cloud computing environments. Exhaustive tests were performed using different datasets of closely- and distantly-related sequences that span from small viral genomes to large mammalian chromosomes. The tests demonstrated that our solution is capable of generating high quality results with a linear-time response and controlled memory consumption, being comparable or faster than the current state-of-the-art methods. We have addressed the problem of pairwise and all-versus-all comparison of large sequences in general, greatly increasing the limits on input data size. The approach described here is based on a modular out-of-core strategy that uses secondary storage to avoid reaching memory limits during the identification of High-scoring Segment Pairs (HSPs) between the sequences under comparison. Software engineering concepts were applied to avoid intermediate result re-calculation, to minimise the performance impact of input/output (I/O) operations and to modularise the process, thus enhancing application flexibility and extendibility. Our computationally-efficient approach allows tasks such as the massive comparison of complete genomes, evolutionary event detection, the identification of conserved synteny blocks and inter-genome distance calculations to be performed more effectively. 
RNA-protein complexes play an essential role in many biological processes. To explore potential functions of RNA-protein complexes, it’s important to identify RNA-binding residues in proteins. In this work, we propose a set of new structural features for RNA-binding residue prediction. A set of template patches are first extracted from RNA-binding interfaces. To construct structural features for a residue, we compare its surrounding patches with each template patch and use the accumulated distances as its structural features. These new features provide sufficient structural information of surrounding surface of a residue and they can be used to measure the structural similarity between the surface surrounding two residues. The new structural features, together with other sequence features, are used to predict RNA-binding residues using ensemble learning technique. The experimental results reveal the effectiveness of the proposed structural features. In addition, the clustering results on template patches exhibit distinct structural patterns of RNA-binding sites, although the sequences of template patches in the same cluster are not conserved. We speculate that RNAs may have structure preferences when binding with proteins.
Plant organ segmentation from 3D point clouds is a relevant task for plant phenotyping and plant growth observation. Automated solutions are required to increase the efficiency of recent high-throughput plant phenotyping pipelines. However, plant geometrical properties vary with time, among observation scales and different plant types. The main objective of the present research is to develop a fully automated, fast and reliable data driven approach for plant organ segmentation. The automated segmentation of plant organs using unsupervised, clustering methods is crucial in cases where the goal is to get fast insights into the data or no labeled data is available or costly to achieve. For this we propose and compare data driven approaches that are easy-to-realize and make the use of standard algorithms possible. Since normalized histograms, acquired from 3D point clouds, can be seen as samples from a probability simplex, we propose to map the data from the simplex space into Euclidean space using Aitchisons log ratio transformation, or into the positive quadrant of the unit sphere using square root transformation. This, in turn, paves the way to a wide range of commonly used analysis techniques that are based on measuring the similarities between data points using Euclidean distance. We investigate the performance of the resulting approaches in the practical context of grouping 3D point clouds and demonstrate empirically that they lead to clustering results with high accuracy for monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plant species with diverse shoot architecture. Conclusion: An automated segmentation of 3D point clouds is demonstrated in the present work. Within seconds first insights into plant data can be deviated – even from non-labelled data. This approach is applicable to different plant species with high accuracy. The analysis cascade can be implemented in future high-throughput phenotyping scenarios and will support the evaluation of the performance of different plant genotypes exposed to stress or in different environmental scenarios. 
Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has greatly facilitated metagenomic analysis but also raised new challenges for metagenomic DNA sequence assembly, owing to its high-throughput nature and extremely short reads generated by sequencers such as Illumina. To date, how to generate a high-quality draft assembly for metagenomic sequencing projects has not been fully addressed. We conducted a comprehensive assessment on state-of-the-art de novo assemblers and revealed that the performance of each assembler depends critically on the sequencing depth. To address this problem, we developed a pipeline named InteMAP to integrate three assemblers, ABySS, IDBA-UD and CABOG, which were found to complement each other in assembling metagenomic sequences. Making a decision of which assembling approaches to use according to the sequencing coverage estimation algorithm for each short read, the pipeline presents an automatic platform suitable to assemble real metagenomic NGS data with uneven coverage distribution of sequencing depth. By comparing the performance of InteMAP with current assemblers on both synthetic and real NGS metagenomic data, we demonstrated that InteMAP achieves better performance with a longer total contig length and higher contiguity, and contains more genes than others. We developed a de novo pipeline, named InteMAP, that integrates existing tools for metagenomics assembly. The pipeline outperforms previous assembly methods on metagenomic assembly by providing a longer total contig length, a higher contiguity and covering more genes. InteMAP, therefore, could potentially be a useful tool for the research community of metagenomics. 
The traditional method used to estimate tree biomass is allometry. In this method, models are tested and equations fitted by regression usually applying ordinary least squares, though other analogous methods are also used for this purpose. Due to the nature of tree biomass data, the assumptions of regression are not always accomplished, bringing uncertainties to the inferences. This article demonstrates that the Data Mining (DM) technique can be used as an alternative to traditional regression approach to estimate tree biomass in the Atlantic Forest, providing better results than allometry, and demonstrating simplicity, versatility and flexibility to apply to a wide range of conditions. Various DM approaches were examined regarding distance, number of neighbors and weighting, by using 180 trees coming from environmental restoration plantations in the Atlantic Forest biome. The best results were attained using the Chebishev distance, 1/d weighting and 5 neighbors. Increasing number of neighbors did not improve estimates. We also analyze the effect of the size of data set and number of variables in the results. The complete data set and the maximum number of predicting variables provided the best fitting. We compare DM to Schumacher-Hall model and the results showed a gain of up to 16.5 % in reduction of the standard error of estimate. Conclusion: It was concluded that Data Mining can provide accurate estimates of tree biomass and can be successfully used for this purpose in environmental restoration plantations in the Atlantic Forest. This technique provides lower standard error of estimate than the Schumacher-Hall model and has the advantage of not requiring some statistical assumptions as do the regression models. Flexibility, versatility and simplicity are attributes of DM that corroborates its great potential for similar applications.
Motivated by the general need to identify and classify species based on molecular evidence, genome comparisons have been proposed that are based on measuring mostly Euclidean distances between Chaos Game Representation (CGR) patterns of genomic DNA sequences. We provide, on an extensive dataset and using several different distances, confirmation of the hypothesis that CGR patterns are preserved along a genomic DNA sequence, and are different for DNA sequences originating from genomes of different species. This finding lends support to the theory that CGRs of genomic sequences can act as graphic genomic signatures. In particular, we compare the CGR patterns of over five hundred different 150,000 bp genomic sequences spanning one complete chromosome from each of six organisms, representing all kingdoms of life: H. sapiens (Animalia; chromosome 21), S. cerevisiae (Fungi; chromosome 4), A. thaliana (Plantae; chromosome 1), P. falciparum (Protista; chromosome 14), E. coli (Bacteria - full genome), and P. furiosus (Archaea - full genome). To maximize the diversity within each species, we also analyze the interrelationships within a set of over five hundred 150,000 bp genomic sequences sampled from the entire aforementioned genomes. Lastly, we provide some preliminary evidence of this method’s ability to classify genomic DNA sequences at lower taxonomic levels by comparing sequences sampled from the entire genome of H. sapiens (class Mammalia, order Primates) and of M. musculus (class Mammalia, order Rodentia), for a total length of approximately 174 million basepairs analyzed. We compute pairwise distances between CGRs of these genomic sequences using six different distances, and construct Molecular Distance Maps, which visualize all sequences as points in a two-dimensional or three-dimensional space, to simultaneously display their interrelationships. Conclusion: Our analysis confirms, for this dataset, that CGR patterns of DNA sequences from the same genome are in general quantitatively similar, while being different for DNA sequences from genomes of different species. Our assessment of the performance of the six distances analyzed uses three different quality measures and suggests that several distances outperform the Euclidean distance, which has so far been almost exclusively used for such studies.
Recently, the Bayesian method becomes more popular for analyzing high dimensional gene expression data as it allows us to borrow information across different genes and provides powerful estimators for evaluating gene expression levels. It is crucial to develop a simple but efficient gene selection algorithm for detecting differentially expressed (DE) genes based on the Bayesian estimators. In this paper, by extending the two-criterion idea of Chen et al. (Chen M-H, Ibrahim JG, Chi Y-Y. A new class of mixture models for differential gene expression in DNA microarray data. J Stat Plan Inference. 2008;138:387–404), we propose two new gene selection algorithms for general Bayesian models and name these new methods as the confident difference criterion methods. One is based on the standardized differences between two mean expression values among genes; the other adds the differences between two variances to it. The proposed confident difference criterion methods first evaluate the posterior probability of a gene having different gene expressions between competitive samples and then declare a gene to be DE if the posterior probability is large. The theoretical connection between the proposed first method based on the means and the Bayes factor approach proposed by Yu et al. (Yu F, Chen M-H, Kuo L. Detecting differentially expressed genes using alibrated Bayes factors. Statistica Sinica. 2008;18:783–802) is established under the normal-normal-model with equal variances between two samples. The empirical performance of the proposed methods is examined and compared to those of several existing methods via several simulations. The results from these simulation studies show that the proposed confident difference criterion methods outperform the existing methods when comparing gene expressions across different conditions for both microarray studies and sequence-based high-throughput studies. A real dataset is used to further demonstrate the proposed methodology. In the real data application, the confident difference criterion methods successfully identified more clinically important DE genes than the other methods. Conclusion: The confident difference criterion method proposed in this paper provides a new efficient approach for both microarray studies and sequence-based high-throughput studies to identify differentially expressed genes. 
In ecology and forensics, some population assignment techniques use molecular markers to assign individuals to known groups. However, assigning individuals to known populations can be difficult if the level of genetic differentiation among populations is small. Most assignment studies handle independent markers, often by pruning markers in Linkage Disequilibrium (LD), ignoring the information contained in the correlation among markers due to LD. To improve the accuracy of population assignment, we present an algorithm, implemented in the HaploPOP software, that combines markers into haplotypes, without requiring independence. The algorithm is based on the Gain of Informativeness for Assignment that provides a measure to decide if a pair of markers should be combined into haplotypes, or not, in order to improve assignment. Because complete exploration of all possible solutions for constructing haplotypes is computationally prohibitive, our approach uses a greedy algorithm based on windows of fixed sizes. We evaluate the performance of HaploPOP to assign individuals to populations using a split-validation approach. We investigate both simulated SNPs data and dense genotype data from individuals from Spain and Portugal. Our results show that constructing haplotypes with HaploPOP can substantially reduce assignment error. The HaploPOP software is freely available as a command-line software at www.ieg.uu.se/Jakobsson/software/HaploPOP/.
Proteins play an important role in biological processes in living organisms. Many protein functions are based on interaction with other proteins. The structural information is important for adequate description of these interactions. Sets of protein structures determined in both bound and unbound states are essential for benchmarking of the docking procedures. However, the number of such proteins in PDB is relatively small. A radical expansion of such sets is possible if the unbound structures are computationally simulated. The Dockground public resource provides data to improve our understanding of protein–protein interactions and to assist in the development of better tools for structural modeling of protein complexes, such as docking algorithms and scoring functions. A large set of simulated unbound protein structures was generated from the bound structures. The modeling protocol was based on 1 ns Langevin dynamics simulation. The simulated structures were validated on the ensemble of experimentally determined unbound and bound structures. The set is intended for large scale benchmarking of docking algorithms and scoring functions. A radical expansion of the unbound protein docking benchmark set was achieved by simulating the unbound structures. The simulated unbound structures were selected according to criteria from systematic comparison of experimentally determined bound and unbound structures. The set is publicly available at 
?
Evaluating the quality and reliability of a de novo assembly and of single contigs in particular is challenging since commonly a ground truth is not readily available and numerous factors may influence results. Currently available procedures provide assembly scores but lack a comparative quality ranking of contigs within an assembly. We present SuRankCo, which relies on a machine learning approach to predict quality scores for contigs and to enable the ranking of contigs within an assembly. The result is a sorted contig set which allows selective contig usage in downstream analysis. Benchmarking on datasets with known ground truth shows promising sensitivity and specificity and favorable comparison to existing methodology. SuRankCo analyzes the reliability of de novo assemblies on the contig level and thereby allows quality control and ranking prior to further downstream and validation experiments. 
How protein phosphorylation relates to kingdom/phylum divergence is largely unknown and the amino acid residues surrounding the phosphorylation site have profound importance on protein kinase–substrate interactions. Standard motif analysis is not adequate for large scale comparative analysis because each phophopeptide is assigned to a unique motif and perform poorly with the unbalanced nature of the input datasets. First the discriminative n-grams of five species from five different kingdom/phyla were identified. A signature with 5540 discriminative n-grams that could be found in other species from the same kingdoms/phyla was created. Using a test data set, the ability of the signature to classify species in their corresponding kingdom/phylum was confirmed using classification methods. Lastly, ortholog proteins among proteins with n-grams were identified in order to determine to what degree was the identity of the detected n-grams a property of phosphosites rather than a consequence of species-specific or kingdom/phylum-specific protein inventory. The motifs were grouped in clusters of equal physico-chemical nature and their distribution was similar between species in the same kingdom/phylum while clear differences were found among species of different kingdom/phylum. For example, the animal-specific top discriminative n-grams contained many basic amino acids and the plant-specific motifs were mainly acidic. Secondary structure prediction methods show that the discriminative n-grams in the majority of the cases lack from a regular secondary structure as on average they had 88 % of random coil compared to 66 % found in the phosphoproteins they were derived from. The discriminative n-grams were able to classify organisms in their corresponding kingdom/phylum, they show different patterns among species of different kingdom/phylum and these regions can contribute to evolutionary divergence as they are in disordered regions that can evolve rapidly. The differences found possibly reflect group-specific differences in the kinomes of the different groups of species. 
Gene expression microarrays measure the levels of messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) in a sample using probe sequences that hybridize with transcribed regions. These probe sequences are designed using a reference genome for the relevant species. However, most model organisms and all humans have genomes that deviate from their reference. These variations, which include single nucleotide polymorphisms, insertions of additional nucleotides, and nucleotide deletions, can affect the microarray’s performance. Genetic experiments comparing individuals bearing different population-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms that intersect microarray probes are therefore subject to systemic bias, as the reduction in binding efficiency due to a technical artifact is confounded with genetic differences between parental strains. This problem has been recognized for some time, and earlier methods of compensation have attempted to identify probes affected by genome variants using statistical models. These methods may require replicate microarray measurement of gene expression in the relevant tissue in inbred parental samples, which are not always available in model organisms and are never available in humans. By using sequence information for the genomes of organisms under investigation, potentially problematic probes can now be identified a priori. However, there is no published software tool that makes it easy to eliminate these probes from an annotation. I present equalizer, a software package that uses genome variant data to modify annotation files for the commonly used Affymetrix IVT and Gene/Exon platforms. These files can be used by any microarray normalization method for subsequent analysis. I demonstrate how use of equalizer on experiments mapping germline influence on gene expression in a genetic cross between two divergent mouse species and in human samples significantly reduces probe hybridization-induced bias, reducing false positive and false negative findings. The equalizer package reduces probe hybridization bias from experiments performed on the Affymetrix microarray platform, allowing accurate assessment of germline influence on gene expression.
The computation of phylogenetic trees on the same set of species that are based on different orthologous genes can lead to incongruent trees. One possible explanation for this behavior are interspecific hybridization events recombining genes of different species. An important approach to analyze such events is the computation of hybridization networks. This work presents the first algorithm computing the hybridization number as well as a set of representative hybridization networks for multiple binary phylogenetic input trees on the same set of taxa. To improve its practical runtime, we show how this algorithm can be parallelized. Moreover, we demonstrate the efficiency of the software Hybroscale, containing an implementation of our algorithm, by comparing it to PIRNv2.0, which is so far the best available software computing the exact hybridization number for multiple binary phylogenetic trees on the same set of taxa. The algorithm is part of the software Hybroscale, which was developed specifically for the investigation of hybridization networks including their computation and visualization. Hybroscale is freely available1 and runs on all three major operating systems. Conclusion: Our simulation study indicates that our approach is on average 100 times faster than PIRNv2.0. Moreover, we show how Hybroscale improves the interpretation of the reported hybridization networks by adding certain features to its graphical representation. 
Spirulina (Arthrospira) platensis is the only cyanobacterium that in addition to being studied at the molecular level and subjected to gene manipulation, can also be mass cultivated in outdoor ponds for commercial use as a food supplement. Thus, encountering environmental changes, including temperature stresses, is common during the mass production of Spirulina. The use of cyanobacteria as an experimental platform, especially for photosynthetic gene manipulation in plants and bacteria, is becoming increasingly important. Understanding the mechanisms and protein-protein interaction networks that underlie low- and high-temperature responses is relevant to Spirulina mass production. To accomplish this goal, high-throughput techniques such as OMICs analyses are used. Thus, large datasets must be collected, managed and subjected to information extraction. Therefore, databases including (i) proteomic analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) data and (ii) domain/motif visualization tools are required for potential use in temperature response models for plant chloroplasts and photosynthetic bacteria. Descriptions: A web-based repository was developed including an embedded database, SpirPro, and tools for network visualization. Proteome data were analyzed integrated with protein-protein interactions and/or metabolic pathways from KEGG. The repository provides various information, ranging from raw data (2D-gel images) to associated results, such as data from interaction and/or pathway analyses. This integration allows in silico analyses of protein-protein interactions affected at the metabolic level and, particularly, analyses of interactions between and within the affected metabolic pathways under temperature stresses for comparative proteomic analysis. The developed tool, which is coded in HTML with CSS/JavaScript and depicted in Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG), is designed for interactive analysis and exploration of the constructed network. SpirPro is publicly available on the web at  SpirPro is an analysis platform containing an integrated proteome and PPI database that provides the most comprehensive data on this cyanobacterium at the systematic level. As an integrated database, SpirPro can be applied in various analyses, such as temperature stress response networking analysis in cyanobacterial models and interacting domain-domain analysis between proteins of interest.
The knowledge of the spatial organisation of the chromatin fibre in cell nuclei helps researchers to understand the nuclear machinery that regulates dna activity. Recent experimental techniques of the type Chromosome Conformation Capture (3c, or similar) provide high-resolution, high-throughput data consisting in the number of times any possible pair of dna fragments is found to be in contact, in a certain population of cells. As these data carry information on the structure of the chromatin fibre, several attempts have been made to use them to obtain high-resolution 3d reconstructions of entire chromosomes, or even an entire genome. The techniques proposed treat the data in different ways, possibly exploiting physical-geometric chromatin models. One popular strategy is to transform contact data into Euclidean distances between pairs of fragments, and then solve a classical distance-to-geometry problem. We developed and tested a reconstruction technique that does not require translating contacts into distances, thus avoiding a number of related drawbacks. Also, we introduce a geometrical chromatin chain model that allows us to include sound biochemical and biological constraints in the problem. This model can be scaled at different genomic resolutions, where the structures of the coarser models are influenced by the reconstructions at finer resolutions. The search in the solution space is then performed by a classical simulated annealing, where the model is evolved efficiently through quaternion operators. The presence of appropriate constraints permits the less reliable data to be overlooked, so the result is a set of plausible chromatin configurations compatible with both the data and the prior knowledge. To test our method, we obtained a number of 3d chromatin configurations from hi-c data available in the literature for the long arm of human chromosome 1, and validated their features against known properties of gene density and transcriptional activity. Our results are compatible with biological features not introduced a priori in the problem: structurally different regions in our reconstructions highly correlate with functionally different regions as known from literature and genomic repositories. 
Despite the tremendous drop in the cost of nucleotide sequencing in recent years, many research projects still utilize sequencing of pools containing multiple samples for the detection of sequence variants as a cost saving measure. Various software tools exist to analyze these pooled sequence data, yet little has been reported on the relative accuracy and ease of use of these different programs. In this manuscript we evaluate five different variant detection programs—The Genome Analysis Toolkit (GATK), CRISP, LoFreq, VarScan, and SNVer—with regard to their ability to detect variants in synthetically pooled Illumina sequencing data, by creating simulated pooled binary alignment/map (BAM) files using single-sample sequencing data from varying numbers of previously characterized samples at varying depths of coverage per sample. We report the overall runtimes and memory usage of each program, as well as each program’s sensitivity and specificity to detect known true variants. GATK, CRISP, and LoFreq all gave balanced accuracy of 80 % or greater for datasets with varying per-sample depth of coverage and numbers of samples per pool. VarScan and SNVer generally had balanced accuracy lower than 80 %. CRISP and LoFreq required up to four times less computational time and up to ten times less physical memory than GATK did, and without filtering, gave results with the highest sensitivity. VarScan and SNVer had generally lower false positive rates, but also significantly lower sensitivity than the other three programs. 
Cellular organelles with genomes of their own (e.g. plastids and mitochondria) can pass genetic sequences to other organellar genomes within the cell in many species across the eukaryote phylogeny. The extent of the occurrence of these organellar-derived inserted sequences (odins) is still unknown, but if not accounted for in genomic and phylogenetic studies, they can be a source of error. However, if correctly identified, these inserted sequences can be used for evolutionary and comparative genomic studies. Although such insertions can be detected using various laboratory and bioinformatic strategies, there is currently no straightforward way to apply them as a standard organellar genome assembly on next-generation sequencing data. Furthermore, most current methods for identification of such insertions are unsuitable for use on non-model organisms or ancient DNA datasets. We present a bioinformatic method that uses phasing algorithms to reconstruct both source and inserted organelle sequences. The method was tested in different shotgun and organellar-enriched DNA high-throughput sequencing (HTS) datasets from ancient and modern samples. Specifically, we used datasets from lions (Panthera leo ssp. and Panthera leo leo) to characterize insertions from mitochondrial origin, and from common grapevine (Vitis vinifera) and bugle (Ajuga reptans) to characterize insertions derived from plastid genomes. Comparison of the results against other available organelle genome assembly methods demonstrated that our new method provides an improvement in the sequence assembly. Conclusion: Using datasets from a wide range of species and different levels of complexity we showed that our novel bioinformatic method based on phasing algorithms can be used to achieve the next two goals: i) reference-guided assembly of chloroplast/mitochondrial genomes from HTS data and ii) identification and simultaneous assembly of odins. This method represents the first application of haplotype phasing for automatic detection of odins and reference-based organellar genome assembly. 
Interactions that involve one or more amino acid side chains near the ends of protein helices stabilize helix termini and shape the geometry of the adjacent loops, making a substantial contribution to overall protein structure. Previous work has identified key helix-terminal motifs, such as Asx/ST N-caps, the capping box, and hydrophobic and electrostatic interactions, but important questions remain, including: 1) What loop backbone geometries are favoured by each motif? 2) To what extent are multi-amino acid motifs likely to represent genuine cooperative interactions? 3) Can new motifs be identified in a large, recent dataset using the latest bioinformatics tools? Three analytical tools are applied here to answer these questions. First, helix-terminal structures are partitioned by loop backbone geometry using a new 3D clustering algorithm. Next, Cascade Detection, a motif detection algorithm recently published by the author, is applied to each cluster to determine which sequence motifs are overrepresented in each geometry. Finally, the results for each motif are presented in a CapMap, a 3D conformational heatmap that displays the distribution of the motif’s overrepresentation across loop geometries, enabling the rapid isolation and characterization of the associated side chain interaction. This work identifies a library of geometry-specific side chain interactions that provides a new, detailed picture of loop structure near the helix terminus. Highlights include determinations of the favoured loop geometries for the Asx/ST N-cap motifs, capping boxes, “big” boxes, and other hydrophobic, electrostatic, H-bond, and pi stacking interactions, many of which have not been described before. This work demonstrates that the combination of structural clustering and motif detection in the sequence space can efficiently identify side chain motifs and map them to the loop geometries which they support. Protein designers should find this study useful, because it identifies side chain interactions which are good candidates for inclusion in synthetic helix-terminal loops with specific desired geometries, since they are used in nature to support these geometries. The techniques described here can also be applied to map side chain interactions associated with other structural components of proteins such as beta and gamma turns. 
While next-generation sequencing technologies have made sequencing genomes faster and more affordable, deciphering the complete genome sequence of an organism remains a significant bioinformatics challenge, especially for large genomes. Low sequence coverage, repetitive elements and short read length make de novo genome assembly difficult, often resulting in sequence and/or fragment “gaps” – uncharacterized nucleotide (N) stretches of unknown or estimated lengths. Some of these gaps can be closed by re-processing latent information in the raw reads. Even though there are several tools for closing gaps, they do not easily scale up to processing billion base pair genomes. Here we describe Sealer, a tool designed to close gaps within assembly scaffolds by navigating de Bruijn graphs represented by space-efficient Bloom filter data structures. We demonstrate how it scales to successfully close 50.8 % and 13.8 % of gaps in human (3 Gbp) and white spruce (20 Gbp) draft assemblies in under 30 and 27 h, respectively – a feat that is not possible with other leading tools with the breadth of data used in our study. Conclusion: Sealer is an automated finishing application that uses the succinct Bloom filter representation of a de Bruijn graph to close gaps in draft assemblies, including that of very large genomes. We expect Sealer to have broad utility for finishing genomes across the tree of life, from bacterial genomes to large plant genomes and beyond. Sealer is available for download at -release. 
Rapid improvements in light and electron microscopy imaging techniques and the development of 3D anatomical atlases necessitate new approaches for the visualization and analysis of image data. Pixel-based representations of raw light microscopy data suffer from limitations in the number of channels that can be visualized simultaneously. Complex electron microscopic reconstructions from large tissue volumes are also challenging to visualize and analyze. Here we exploit the advanced visualization capabilities and flexibility of the open-source platform Blender to visualize and analyze anatomical atlases. We use light-microscopy-based gene expression atlases and electron microscopy connectome volume data from larval stages of the marine annelid Platynereis dumerilii. We build object-based larval gene expression atlases in Blender and develop tools for annotation and coexpression analysis. We also represent and analyze connectome data including neuronal reconstructions and underlying synaptic connectivity. We demonstrate the power and flexibility of Blender for visualizing and exploring complex anatomical atlases. The resources we have developed for Platynereis will facilitate data sharing and the standardization of anatomical atlases for this species. The flexibility of Blender, particularly its embedded Python application programming interface, means that our methods can be easily extended to other organisms. 
Non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) are the most common DNA sequence variation associated with disease in humans. Thus determining the clinical significance of each nsSNP is of great importance. Potential detrimental nsSNPs may be identified by genetic association studies or by functional analysis in the laboratory, both of which are expensive and time consuming. Existing computational methods lack accuracy and features to facilitate nsSNP classification for clinical use. We developed the GESPA (GEnomic Single nucleotide Polymorphism Analyzer) program to predict the pathogenicity and disease phenotype of nsSNPs. GESPA is a user-friendly software package for classifying disease association of nsSNPs. It allows flexibility in acceptable input formats and predicts the pathogenicity of a given nsSNP by assessing the conservation of amino acids in orthologs and paralogs and supplementing this information with data from medical literature. The development and testing of GESPA was performed using the humsavar, ClinVar and humvar datasets. Additionally, GESPA also predicts the disease phenotype associated with a nsSNP with high accuracy, a feature unavailable in existing software. GESPA’s overall accuracy exceeds existing computational methods for predicting nsSNP pathogenicity. The usability of GESPA is enhanced by fast SQL-based cloud storage and retrieval of data. GESPA is a novel bioinformatics tool to determine the pathogenicity and phenotypes of nsSNPs. We anticipate that GESPA will become a useful clinical framework for predicting the disease association of nsSNPs. The program, executable jar file, source code, GPL 3.0 license, user guide, and test data with instructions are available at  
With rapid advancements in technology, the sequences of thousands of species’ genomes are becoming available. Within the sequences are repeats that comprise significant portions of genomes. Successful annotations thus require accurate discovery of repeats. As species-specific elements, repeats in newly sequenced genomes are likely to be unknown. Therefore, annotating newly sequenced genomes requires tools to discover repeats de-novo. However, the currently available de-novo tools have limitations concerning the size of the input sequence, ease of use, sensitivities to major types of repeats, consistency of performance, speed, and false positive rate. To address these limitations, I designed and developed Red, applying Machine Learning. Red is the first repeat-detection tool capable of labeling its training data and training itself automatically on an entire genome. Red is easy to install and use. It is sensitive to both transposons and simple repeats; in contrast, available tools such as RepeatScout and ReCon are sensitive to transposons, and WindowMasker to simple repeats. Red performed consistently well on seven genomes; the other tools performed well only on some genomes. Red is much faster than RepeatScout and ReCon and has a much lower false positive rate than WindowMasker. On human genes with five or more copies, Red was more specific than RepeatScout by a wide margin. When tested on genomes of unusual nucleotide compositions, Red located repeats with high sensitivities and maintained moderate false positive rates. Red outperformed the related tools on a bacterial genome. Red identified 46,405 novel repetitive segments in the human genome. Finally, Red is capable of processing assembled and unassembled genomes. Red’s innovative methodology and its excellent performance on seven different genomes represent a valuable advancement in the field of repeats discovery. 
Most ‘transcriptomic’ data from microarrays are generated from small sample sizes compared to the large number of measured biomarkers, making it very difficult to build accurate and generalizable disease state classification models. Integrating information from different, but related, ‘transcriptomic’ data may help build better classification models. However, most proposed methods for integrative analysis of ‘transcriptomic’ data cannot incorporate domain knowledge, which can improve model performance. To this end, we have developed a methodology that leverages transfer rule learning and functional modules, which we call TRL-FM, to capture and abstract domain knowledge in the form of classification rules to facilitate integrative modeling of multiple gene expression data. TRL-FM is an extension of the transfer rule learner (TRL) that we developed previously. The goal of this study was to test our hypothesis that “an integrative model obtained via the TRL-FM approach outperforms traditional models based on single gene expression data sources”. To evaluate the feasibility of the TRL-FM framework, we compared the area under the ROC curve (AUC) of models developed with TRL-FM and other traditional methods, using 21 microarray datasets generated from three studies on brain cancer, prostate cancer, and lung disease, respectively. The results show that TRL-FM statistically significantly outperforms TRL as well as traditional models based on single source data. In addition, TRL-FM performed better than other integrative models driven by meta-analysis and cross-platform data merging. The capability of utilizing transferred abstract knowledge derived from source data using feature mapping enables the TRL-FM framework to mimic the human process of learning and adaptation when performing related tasks. The novel TRL-FM methodology for integrative modeling for multiple ‘transcriptomic’ datasets is able to intelligently incorporate domain knowledge that traditional methods might disregard, to boost predictive power and generalization performance. In this study, TRL-FM’s abstraction of knowledge is achieved in the form of functional modules, but the overall framework is generalizable in that different approaches of acquiring abstract knowledge can be integrated into this framework. 
Chemical or small interfering (si) RNA screens measure the effects of many independent experimental conditions, each applied to a population of cells (e.g., all of the cells in a well). High-content screens permit a readout (e.g., fluorescence, luminescence, cell morphology) from each cell in the population. Most analysis approaches compare the average effect on each population, precluding identification of outliers that affect the distribution of the reporter in the population but not its average. Other approaches only measure changes to the distribution with a single parameter, precluding accurate distinction and clustering of interesting outlier distributions. We describe a methodology to identify outlier conditions by considering the cell-level measurements from each condition as a sample of an underlying distribution. With appropriate selection of a distance metric, all effects can be embedded in a fixed-dimensionality Euclidean basis, facilitating identification and clustering of biologically interesting outliers. We demonstrate that measurement of distances with the Hellinger distance metric offers substantial computational efficiencies over alternative metrics. We validate this methodology using an RNA interference (RNAi) screen in mouse embryonic stem cells (ESC) with a Nanog reporter. The methodology clusters effects of multiple control siRNAs into their true identities better than conventional approaches describing the median cell fluorescence or the commonly used Kolmogorov-Smirnov distance between the observed fluorescence distribution and the null distribution. It identifies outlier genes with effects on the reporter distribution that would have been missed by other methods. Among them, siRNA targeting Chek1 leads to a wider Nanog reporter fluorescence distribution. Similarly, siRNA targeting Med14 or Med27 leads to a narrower Nanog reporter fluorescence distribution. We confirm the roles of these three genes in regulating pluripotency by mRNA expression and alkaline phosphatase staining using independent short hairpin (sh) RNAs. Using our methodology, we describe each experimental condition by a probability distribution. Measuring distances between probability distributions permits a multivariate rather than univariate readout. Clustering points derived from these distances allows us to obtain greater biological insight than methods based solely on single parameters. We find several outliers from a mouse ESC RNAi screen that we confirm to be pluripotency regulators. Many of these outliers would have been missed by other analysis methods. 
High-throughput next-generation RNA sequencing has matured into a viable and powerful method for detecting variations in transcript expression and regulation. Proactive quality control is of critical importance as unanticipated biases, artifacts, or errors can potentially drive false associations and lead to flawed results. We have developed the Quality of RNA-Seq Toolset, or QoRTs, a comprehensive, multifunction toolset that assists in quality control and data processing of high-throughput RNA sequencing data. QoRTs generates an unmatched variety of quality control metrics, and can provide cross-comparisons of replicates contrasted by batch, biological sample, or experimental condition, revealing any outliers and/or systematic issues that could drive false associations or otherwise compromise downstream analyses. In addition, QoRTs simultaneously replaces the functionality of numerous other data-processing tools, and can quickly and efficiently generate quality control metrics, coverage counts (for genes, exons, and known/novel splice-junctions), and browser tracks. These functions can all be carried out as part of a single unified data-processing/quality control run, greatly reducing both the complexity and the total runtime of the analysis pipeline. The software, source code, and documentation are available online at  
Genetic variations predispose individuals to hereditary diseases, play important role in the development of complex diseases, and impact drug metabolism. The full information about the DNA variations in the genome of an individual is given by haplotypes, the ordered lists of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located on chromosomes. Affordable high-throughput DNA sequencing technologies enable routine acquisition of data needed for the assembly of single individual haplotypes. However, state-of-the-art high-throughput sequencing platforms generate data that is erroneous, which induces uncertainty in the SNP and genotype calling procedures and, ultimately, adversely affect the accuracy of haplotyping. When inferring haplotype phase information, the vast majority of the existing techniques for haplotype assembly assume that the genotype information is correct. This motivates the development of methods capable of joint genotype calling and haplotype assembly. We present a haplotype assembly algorithm, ParticleHap, that relies on a probabilistic description of the sequencing data to jointly infer genotypes and assemble the most likely haplotypes. Our method employs a deterministic sequential Monte Carlo algorithm that associates single nucleotide polymorphisms with haplotypes by exhaustively exploring all possible extensions of the partial haplotypes. The algorithm relies on genotype likelihoods rather than on often erroneously called genotypes, thus ensuring a more accurate assembly of the haplotypes. Results on both the 1000 Genomes Project experimental data as well as simulation studies demonstrate that the proposed approach enables highly accurate solutions to the haplotype assembly problem while being computationally efficient and scalable, generally outperforming existing methods in terms of both accuracy and speed. The developed probabilistic framework and sequential Monte Carlo algorithm enable joint haplotype assembly and genotyping in a computationally efficient manner. Our results demonstrate fast and highly accurate haplotype assembly aided by the re-examination of erroneously called genotypes.A C code implementation of ParticleHap will be available for download from 
Global run-on coupled with deep sequencing (GRO-seq) provides extensive information on the location and function of coding and non-coding transcripts, including primary microRNAs (miRNAs), long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), and enhancer RNAs (eRNAs), as well as yet undiscovered classes of transcripts. However, few computational tools tailored toward this new type of sequencing data are available, limiting the applicability of GRO-seq data for identifying novel transcription units. Here, we present groHMM, a computational tool in R, which defines the boundaries of transcription units de novo using a two state hidden-Markov model (HMM). A systematic comparison of the performance between groHMM and two existing peak-calling methods tuned to identify broad regions (SICER and HOMER) favorably supports our approach on existing GRO-seq data from MCF-7 breast cancer cells. To demonstrate the broader utility of our approach, we have used groHMM to annotate a diverse array of transcription units (i.e., primary transcripts) from four GRO-seq data sets derived from cells representing a variety of different human tissue types, including non-transformed cells (cardiomyocytes and lung fibroblasts) and transformed cells (LNCaP and MCF-7 cancer cells), as well as non-mammalian cells (from flies and worms). As an example of the utility of groHMM and its application to questions about the transcriptome, we show how groHMM can be used to analyze cell type-specific enhancers as defined by newly annotated enhancer transcripts. Our results show that groHMM can reveal new insights into cell type-specific transcription by identifying novel transcription units, and serve as a complete and useful tool for evaluating functional genomic elements in cells. 
Predictions of MHC binding affinity are commonly used in immunoinformatics for T cell epitope prediction. There are multiple available methods, some of which provide web access. However there is currently no convenient way to access the results from multiple methods at the same time or to execute predictions for an entire proteome at once. We designed a web application that allows integration of multiple epitope prediction methods for any number of proteins in a genome. The tool is a front-end for various freely available methods. Features include visualisation of results from multiple predictors within proteins in one plot, genome-wide analysis and estimates of epitope conservation. We present a self contained web application, Epitopemap, for calculating and viewing epitope predictions with multiple methods. The tool is easy to use and will assist in computational screening of viral or bacterial genomes. 
The third edition of the BioNLP Shared Task was held with the grand theme "knowledge base construction (KB)". The Genia Event (GE) task was re-designed and implemented in light of this theme. For its final report, the participating systems were evaluated from a perspective of annotation. To further explore the grand theme, we extended the evaluation from a perspective of KB construction. Also, the Gene Regulation Ontology (GRO) task was newly introduced in the third edition. The final evaluation of the participating systems resulted in relatively low performance. The reason was attributed to the large size and complex semantic representation of the ontology. To investigate potential benefits of resource exchange between the presumably similar tasks, we measured the overlap between the datasets of the two tasks, and tested whether the dataset for one task can be used to enhance performance on the other. We report an extended evaluation on all the participating systems in the GE task, incoporating a KB perspective. For the evaluation, the final submission of each participant was converted to RDF statements, and evaluated using 8 queries that were formulated in SPARQL. The results suggest that the evaluation may be concluded differently between the two different perspectives, annotation vs. KB. We also provide a comparison of the GE and GRO tasks by converting their datasets into each other's format. More than 90% of the GE data could be converted into the GRO task format, while only half of the GRO data could be mapped to the GE task format. The imbalance in conversion indicates that the GRO is a comprehensive extension of the GE task ontology. We further used the converted GRO data as additional training data for the GE task, which helped improve GE task participant system performance. However, the converted GE data did not help GRO task participants, due to overfitting and the ontology gap.
Since their introduction in 2009, the BioNLP Shared Task events have been instrumental in advancing the development of methods and resources for the automatic extraction of information from the biomedical literature. In this paper, we present the Cancer Genetics (CG) and Pathway Curation (PC) tasks, two event extraction tasks introduced in the BioNLP Shared Task 2013. The CG task focuses on cancer, emphasizing the extraction of physiological and pathological processes at various levels of biological organization, and the PC task targets reactions relevant to the development of biomolecular pathway models, defining its extraction targets on the basis of established pathway representations and ontologies. Six groups participated in the CG task and two groups in the PC task, together applying a wide range of extraction approaches including both established state-of-the-art systems and newly introduced extraction methods. The best-performing systems achieved F-scores of 55% on the CG task and 53% on the PC task, demonstrating a level of performance comparable to the best results achieved in similar previously proposed tasks. The results indicate that existing event extraction technology can generalize to meet the novel challenges represented by the CG and PC task settings, suggesting that extraction methods are capable of supporting the construction of knowledge bases on the molecular mechanisms of cancer and the curation of biomolecular pathway models. The CG and PC tasks continue as open challenges for all interested parties, with data, tools and resources available from the shared task homepage.
Huge amounts of electronic biomedical documents, such as molecular biology reports or genomic papers are generated daily. Nowadays, these documents are mainly available in the form of unstructured free texts, which require heavy processing for their registration into organized databases. This organization is instrumental for information retrieval, enabling to answer the advanced queries of researchers and practitioners in biology, medicine, and related fields. Hence, the massive data flow calls for efficient automatic methods of text-mining that extract high-level information, such as biomedical events, from biomedical text. The usual computational tools of Natural Language Processing cannot be readily applied to extract these biomedical events, due to the peculiarities of the domain. Indeed, biomedical documents contain highly domain-specific jargon and syntax. These documents also describe distinctive dependencies, making text-mining in molecular biology a specific discipline. We address biomedical event extraction as the classification of pairs of text entities into the classes corresponding to event types. The candidate pairs of text entities are recursively provided to a multiclass classifier relying on Support Vector Machines. This recursive process extracts events involving other events as arguments. Compared to joint models based on Markov Random Fields, our model simplifies inference and hence requires shorter training and prediction times along with lower memory capacity. Compared to usual pipeline approaches, our model passes over a complex intermediate problem, while making a more extensive usage of sophisticated joint features between text entities. Our method focuses on the core event extraction of the Genia task of BioNLP challenges yielding the best result reported so far on the 2013 edition.
Information regarding bacteria biotopes is important for several research areas including health sciences, microbiology, and food processing and preservation. One of the challenges for scientists in these domains is the huge amount of information buried in the text of electronic resources. Developing methods to automatically extract bacteria habitat relations from the text of these electronic resources is crucial for facilitating research in these areas. Methods: We introduce a linguistically motivated rule-based approach for recognizing and normalizing names of bacteria habitats in biomedical text by using an ontology. Our approach is based on the shallow syntactic analysis of the text that include sentence segmentation, part-of-speech (POS) tagging, partial parsing, and lemmatization. In addition, we propose two methods for identifying bacteria habitat localization relations. The underlying assumption for the first method is that discourse changes with a new paragraph. Therefore, it operates on a paragraph-basis. The second method performs a more fine-grained analysis of the text and operates on a sentence-basis. We also develop a novel anaphora resolution method for bacteria coreferences and incorporate it with the sentence-based relation extraction approach. We participated in the Bacteria Biotope (BB) Task of the BioNLP Shared Task 2013. Our system (Boun) achieved the second best performance with 68% Slot Error Rate (SER) in Sub-task 1 (Entity Detection and Categorization), and ranked third with an F-score of 27% in Sub-task 2 (Localization Event Extraction). This paper reports the system that is implemented for the shared task, including the novel methods developed and the improvements obtained after the official evaluation. The extensions include the expansion of the OntoBiotope ontology using the training set for Sub-task 1, and the novel sentence-based relation extraction method incorporated with anaphora resolution for Sub-task 2. These extensions resulted in promising results for Sub-task 1 with a SER of 68%, and state-of-the-art performance for Sub-task 2 with an F-score of 53%. Our results show that a linguistically-oriented approach based on the shallow syntactic analysis of the text is as effective as machine learning approaches for the detection and ontology-based normalization of habitat entities. Furthermore, the newly developed sentence-based relation extraction system with the anaphora resolution module significantly outperforms the paragraph-based one, as well as the other systems that participated in the BB Shared Task 2013.
The BioNLP Gene Regulation Task has attracted a diverse collection of submissions showcasing state-of-the-art systems. However, a principal challenge remains in obtaining a significant amount of recall. We argue that this is an important quality for Information Extraction tasks in this field. We propose a semi-supervised framework, leveraging a large corpus of unannotated data available to us. In this framework, the annotated data is used to find plausible candidates for positive data points, which are included in the machine learning process. As this is a method principally designed for gaining recall, we further explore additional methods to improve precision on top of this. These are: weighted regularisation in the SVM framework, and filtering out unlabelled examples based on a probabilistic rule-finding method. The latter method also allows us to add candidates for negatives from unlabelled data, a method not viable in the unfiltered approach. We replicate one of the original participant systems, and modify it to incorporate our methods. This allows us to test the extent of our proposed methods by applying them to the GRN task data. We find a considerable improvement in recall compared to the baseline system. We also investigate the evaluation metrics and find several mechanisms explaining a bias towards precision. Furthermore, these findings uncover an intricate precision-recall interaction, depriving recall of its habitual immediacy seen in traditional machine learning set-ups. Conclusion: Our contributions are twofold:1. An exploration of a novel semi-supervised pipeline. We have succeeded in employing additional knowledge through adding unannotated data points, while responding to the inherent noise of this method by imposing an automated, rule-based pre-selection step.2. A thorough analysis of the evaluation procedure in the Gene Regulation Shared Task. We have performed an in depth inquiry of the Slot Error Rate, responding to arguments that lead to some design choices of this task. We have furthermore uncovered complexities in the interplay of precision and recall that negate the customary behaviour commonplace to the machine learning engineer.
Biomedical event extraction has been a major focus of biomedical natural language processing (BioNLP) research since the first BioNLP shared task was held in 2009. Accordingly, a large number of event extraction systems have been developed. Most such systems, however, have been developed for specific tasks and/or incorporated task specific settings, making their application to new corpora and tasks problematic without modification of the systems themselves. There is thus a need for event extraction systems that can achieve high levels of accuracy when applied to corpora in new domains, without the need for exhaustive tuning or modification, whilst retaining competitive levels of performance. We have enhanced our state-of-the-art event extraction system, EventMine, to alleviate the need for task-specific tuning. Task-specific details are specified in a configuration file, while extensive task-specific parameter tuning is avoided through the integration of a weighting method, a covariate shift method, and their combination. The task-specific configuration and weighting method have been employed within the context of two different sub-tasks of BioNLP shared task 2013, i.e. Cancer Genetics (CG) and Pathway Curation (PC), removing the need to modify the system specifically for each task. With minimal task specific configuration and tuning, EventMine achieved the 1st place in the PC task, and 2nd in the CG, achieving the highest recall for both tasks. The system has been further enhanced following the shared task by incorporating the covariate shift method and entity generalisations based on the task definitions, leading to further performance improvements. We have shown that it is possible to apply a state-of-the-art event extraction system to new tasks with high levels of performance, without having to modify the system internally. Both covariate shift and weighting methods are useful in facilitating the production of high recall systems. These methods and their combination can adapt a model to the target data with no deep tuning and little manual configuration.
The acquisition of knowledge about relations between bacteria and their locations (habitats and geographical locations) in short texts about bacteria, as defined in the BioNLP-ST 2013 Bacteria Biotope task, depends on the detection of co-reference links between mentions of entities of each of these three types. To our knowledge, no participant in this task has investigated this aspect of the situation. The present work specifically addresses issues raised by this situation: (i) how to detect these co-reference links and associated co-reference chains; (ii) how to use them to prepare positive and negative examples to train a supervised system for the detection of relations between entity mentions; (iii) what context around which entity mentions contributes to relation detection when co-reference chains are provided. We present experiments and results obtained both with gold entity mentions (task 2 of BioNLP-ST 2013) and with automatically detected entity mentions (end-to-end system, in task 3 of BioNLP-ST 2013). Our supervised mention detection system uses a linear chain Conditional Random Fields classifier, and our relation detection system relies on a Logistic Regression (aka Maximum Entropy) classifier. They use a set of morphological, morphosyntactic and semantic features. To minimize false inferences, co-reference resolution applies a set of heuristic rules designed to optimize precision. They take into account the types of the detected entity mentions, and take advantage of the didactic nature of the texts of the corpus, where a large proportion of bacteria naming is fairly explicit (although natural referring expressions such as "the bacteria" are common). The resulting system achieved a 0.495 F-measure on the official test set when taking as input the gold entity mentions, and a 0.351 F-measure when taking as input entity mentions predicted by our CRF system, both of which are above the best BioNLP-ST 2013 participant system. We show that co-reference resolution substantially improves over a baseline system which does not use co-reference information: about 3.5 F-measure points on the test corpus for the end-to-end system (5.5 points on the development corpus) and 7 F-measure points on both development and test corpora when gold mentions are used. While this outperforms the best published system on the BioNLP-ST 2013 Bacteria Biotope dataset, we consider that it provides mostly a stronger baseline from which more work can be started. We also emphasize the importance and difficulty of designing a comprehensive gold standard co-reference annotation, which we explain is a key point to further progress on the task.
We present the two Bacteria Track tasks of BioNLP 2013 Shared Task (ST): Gene Regulation Network (GRN) and Bacteria Biotope (BB). These tasks were previously introduced in the 2011 BioNLP-ST Bacteria Track as Bacteria Gene Interaction (BI) and Bacteria Biotope (BB). The Bacteria Track was motivated by a need to develop specific BioNLP tools for fine-grained event extraction in bacteria biology. The 2013 tasks expand on the 2011 version by better addressing the biological knowledge modeling needs. New evaluation metrics were designed for the new goals. Moving beyond a list of gene interactions, the goal of the GRN task is to build a gene regulation network from the extracted gene interactions. BB'13 is dedicated to the extraction of bacteria biotopes, i.e. bacterial environmental information, as was BB'11. BB'13 extends the typology of BB'11 to a large diversity of biotopes, as defined by the OntoBiotope ontology. The detection of entities and events is tackled by distinct subtasks in order to measure the progress achieved by the participant systems since 2011. This paper details the corpus preparations and the evaluation metrics, as well as summarizing and discussing the participant results. Five groups participated in each of the two tasks. The high diversity of the participant methods reflects the dynamism of the BioNLP research community.The highest scores for the GRN and BB'13 tasks are similar to those obtained by the participants in 2011, despite of the increase in difficulty. The high density of events in short text segments (multi-event extraction) was a difficult issue for the participating systems for both tasks. The analysis of the BB'13 results also shows that co-reference resolution and entity boundary detection remain major hindrances. Conclusion: The evaluation results suggest new research directions for the improvement and development of Information Extraction for molecular and environmental biology. The Bacteria Track tasks remain publicly open; the BioNLP-ST website provides an online evaluation service, the reference corpora and the evaluation tools.
Bisulfite sequencing is one of the most widely used technologies in analyzing DNA methylation patterns, which are important in understanding and characterizing the mechanism of DNA methylation and its functions in disease development. Efficient and user-friendly tools are critical in carrying out such analysis on high-throughput bisulfite sequencing data. However, existing tools are either not scalable well, or inadequate in providing visualization and other desirable functionalities. In order to handle ultra large sequencing data and to provide additional functions and features, we have developed BSPAT, a fast online tool for bisulfite sequencing pattern analysis. With a user-friendly web interface, BSPAT seamlessly integrates read mapping/quality control/methylation calling with methylation pattern generation and visualization. BSPAT has the following important features: 1) instead of using multiple/pairwise sequence alignment methods, BSPAT adopts an efficient and widely used sequence mapping tool to provide fast alignment of sequence reads; 2) BSPAT summarizes and visualizes DNA methylation co-occurrence patterns at a single nucleotide level, which provide valuable information in understanding the mechanism and regulation of DNA methylation; 3) based on methylation co-occurrence patterns, BSPAT can automatically detect potential allele-specific methylation (ASM) patterns, which can greatly enhance the detection and analysis of ASM patterns; 4) by linking directly with other popular databases and tools, BSPAT allows users to perform integrative analysis of methylation patterns with other genomic features together within regions of interest. Conclusion: By utilizing a real bisulfite sequencing dataset generated from prostate cancer cell lines, we have shown that BSPAT is highly efficient. It has also reported some interesting methylation co-occurrence patterns and a potential allele-specific methylation case. In conclusion, BSPAT is an efficient and convenient tool for high-throughput bisulfite sequencing data analysis that can be broadly used.
Classifying cancers by gene selection is among the most important and challenging procedures in biomedicine. A major challenge is to design an effective method that eliminates irrelevant, redundant, or noisy genes from the classification, while retaining all of the highly discriminative genes. We propose a gene selection method, called local hyperplane-based discriminant analysis (LHDA). LHDA adopts two central ideas. First, it uses a local approximation rather than global measurement; second, it embeds a recently reported classification model, K-Local Hyperplane Distance Nearest Neighbor(HKNN) classifier, into its discriminator. Through classification accuracy-based iterations, LHDA obtains the feature weight vector and finally extracts the optimal feature subset. The performance of the proposed method is evaluated in extensive experiments on synthetic and real microarray benchmark datasets. Eight classical feature selection methods, four classification models and two popular embedded learning schemes, including k-nearest neighbor (KNN), hyperplane k-nearest neighbor (HKNN), Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Random Forest are employed for comparisons. Conclusion: The proposed method yielded comparable to or superior performances to seven state-of-the-art models. The nice performance demonstrate the superiority of combining feature weighting with model learning into an unified framework to achieve the two tasks simultaneously. 
DNA methylation offers an excellent example for elucidating how epigenetic information affects gene expression. β values and M values are commonly used to quantify DNA methylation. Statistical methods applicable to DNA methylation data analysis span a number of approaches such as Wilcoxon rank sum test, t-test, Kolmogorov–Smirnov test, permutation test, empirical Bayes method, and bump hunting method. Nonetheless, selection of an optimal statistical method can be challenging when different methods generate inconsistent results from the same data set. We compared six statistical approaches relevant to DNA methylation microarray analysis in terms of false discovery rate control, statistical power, and stability through simulation studies and real data examples. Observable differences were noticed between β values and M values only when methylation levels were correlated across CpG loci. For small sample size (n=3 or 6 in each group), both the empirical Bayes and bump hunting methods showed appropriate FDR control and the highest power when methylation levels across CpG loci were independent. Only the bump hunting method showed appropriate FDR control and the highest power when methylation levels across CpG sites were correlated. For medium (n=12 in each group) and large sample sizes (n=24 in each group), all methods compared had similar power, except for the permutation test whenever the proportion of differentially methylated loci was low. For all sample sizes, the bump hunting method had the lowest stability in terms of standard deviation of total discoveries whenever the proportion of differentially methylated loci was large. The apparent test power comparisons based on raw p-values from DNA methylation studies on ovarian cancer and rheumatoid arthritis provided results as consistent as those obtained in the simulation studies. Overall, these results provide guidance for optimal statistical methods selection under different scenarios. For DNA methylation studies with small sample size, the bump hunting method and the empirical Bayes method are recommended when DNA methylation levels across CpG loci are independent, while only the bump hunting method is recommended when DNA methylation levels are correlated across CpG loci. All methods are acceptable for medium or large sample sizes.
The morphology of neurons offers many insights into developmental processes and signal processing. Numerous reports have focused on metrics at the level of individual branches or whole arbors; however, no studies have attempted to quantify repeated morphological patterns within neuronal trees. We introduce a novel sequential encoding of neurite branching suitable to explore topological patterns. Using all possible branching topologies for comparison we show that the relative abundance of short patterns of up to three bifurcations, together with overall tree size, effectively capture the local branching patterns of neurons. Dendrites and axons display broadly similar topological motifs (over-represented patterns) and anti-motifs (under-represented patterns), differing most in their proportions of bifurcations with one terminal branch and in select sub-sequences of three bifurcations. In addition, pyramidal apical dendrites reveal a distinct motif profile. The quantitative characterization of topological motifs in neuronal arbors provides a thorough description of local features and detailed boundaries for growth mechanisms and hypothesized computational functions. 
The concept of Petri nets (PN) is widely used in systems biology and allows modeling of complex biochemical systems like metabolic systems, signal transduction pathways, and gene expression networks. In particular, PN allows the topological analysis based on structural properties, which is important and useful when quantitative (kinetic) data are incomplete or unknown. Knowing the kinetic parameters, the simulation of time evolution of such models can help to study the dynamic behavior of the underlying system. If the number of involved entities (molecules) is low, a stochastic simulation should be preferred against the classical deterministic approach of solving ordinary differential equations. The Stochastic Simulation Algorithm (SSA) is a common method for such simulations. The combination of the qualitative and semi-quantitative PN modeling and stochastic analysis techniques provides a valuable approach in the field of systems biology. Here, we describe the implementation of stochastic analysis in a PN environment. We extended MonaLisa - an open-source software for creation, visualization and analysis of PN - by several stochastic simulation methods. The simulation module offers four simulation modes, among them the stochastic mode with constant firing rates and Gillespie’s algorithm as exact and approximate versions. The simulator is operated by a user-friendly graphical interface and accepts input data such as concentrations and reaction rate constants that are common parameters in the biological context. The key features of the simulation module are visualization of simulation, interactive plotting, export of results into a text file, mathematical expressions for describing simulation parameters, and up to 500 parallel simulations of the same parameter sets. To illustrate the method we discuss a model for insulin receptor recycling as case study. We present a software that combines the modeling power of Petri nets with stochastic simulation of dynamic processes in a user-friendly environment supported by an intuitive graphical interface. The program offers a valuable alternative to modeling, using ordinary differential equations, especially when simulating single-cell experiments with low molecule counts. The ability to use mathematical expressions provides an additional flexibility in describing the simulation parameters. The open-source distribution allows further extensions by third-party developers. The software is cross-platform and is licensed under the Artistic License 2.0. 
Clustering protein sequences according to inferred homology is a fundamental step in the analysis of many large data sets. Since the publication of the Markov Clustering (MCL) algorithm in 2002, it has been the centerpiece of several popular applications. Each of these approaches generates an undirected graph that represents sequences as nodes connected to each other by edges weighted with a BLAST-based metric. MCL is then used to infer clusters of homologous proteins by analyzing these graphs. The various approaches differ only by how they weight the edges, yet there has been very little direct examination of the relative performance of alternative edge-weighting metrics. This study compares the performance of four BLAST-based edge-weighting metrics: the bit score, bit score ratio (BSR), bit score over anchored length (BAL), and negative common log of the expectation value (NLE). Performance is tested using the Extended CEGMA KOGs (ECK) database, which we introduce here. All metrics performed similarly when analyzing full-length sequences, but dramatic differences emerged as progressively larger fractions of the test sequences were split into fragments. The BSR and BAL successfully rescued subsets of clusters by strengthening certain types of alignments between fragmented sequences, but also shifted the largest correct scores down near the range of scores generated from spurious alignments. This penalty outweighed the benefits in most test cases, and was greatly exacerbated by increasing the MCL inflation parameter, making these metrics less robust than the bit score or the more popular NLE. Notably, the bit score performed as well or better than the other three metrics in all scenarios. The results provide a strong case for use of the bit score, which appears to offer equivalent or superior performance to the more popular NLE. The insight that MCL-based clustering methods can be improved using a more tractable edge-weighting metric will greatly simplify future implementations. We demonstrate this with our own minimalist Python implementation: Porthos, which uses only standard libraries and can process a graph with 25 m + edges connecting the 60 k + KOG sequences in half a minute using less than half a gigabyte of memory. 
Despite ongoing reduction in genotyping costs, genomic studies involving large numbers of species with low economic value (such as Black Tiger prawns) remain cost prohibitive. In this scenario DNA pooling is an attractive option to reduce genotyping costs. However, genotyping of pooled samples comprising DNA from many individuals is challenging due to the presence of errors that exceed the allele frequency quantisation size and therefore cannot be simply corrected by clustering techniques. The solution to the calibration problem is a correction to the allele frequency to mitigate errors incurred in the measurement process. We highlight the limitations of the existing calibration solutions such as the fact they impose assumptions on the variation between allele frequencies 0, 0.5, and 1.0, and address a limited set of error types. We propose a novel machine learning method to address the limitations identified. The approach is tested on SNPs genotyped with the Sequenom iPLEX platform and compared to existing state of the art calibration methods. The new method is capable of reducing the mean square error in allele frequency to half that achievable with existing approaches. Furthermore for the first time we demonstrate the importance of carefully considering the choice of training data when using calibration approaches built from pooled data. Conclusion: This paper demonstrates that improvements in pooled allele frequency estimates result if the genotyping platform is characterised at allele frequencies other than the homozygous and heterozygous cases. Techniques capable of incorporating such information are described along with aspects of implementation.
Active learning is a powerful tool for guiding an experimentation process. Instead of doing all possible experiments in a given domain, active learning can be used to pick the experiments that will add the most knowledge to the current model. Especially, for drug discovery and development, active learning has been shown to reduce the number of experiments needed to obtain high-confidence predictions. However, in practice, it is crucial to have a method to evaluate the quality of the current predictions and decide when to stop the experimentation process. Only by applying reliable stopping criteria to active learning can time and costs in the experimental process actually be saved. We compute active learning traces on simulated drug-target matrices in order to determine a regression model for the accuracy of the active learner. By analyzing the performance of the regression model on simulated data, we design stopping criteria for previously unseen experimental matrices. We demonstrate on four previously characterized drug effect data sets that applying the stopping criteria can result in upto 40 % savings of the total experiments for highly accurate predictions. We show that active learning accuracy can be predicted using simulated data and results in substantial savings in the number of experiments required to make accurate drug-target predictions.
Analyzing the integration profile of retroviral vectors is a vital step in determining their potential genotoxic effects and developing safer vectors for therapeutic use. Identifying retroviral vector integration sites is also important for retroviral mutagenesis screens. We developed VISA, a vector integration site analysis server, to analyze next-generation sequencing data for retroviral vector integration sites. Sequence reads that contain a provirus are mapped to the human genome, sequence reads that cannot be localized to a unique location in the genome are filtered out, and then unique retroviral vector integration sites are determined based on the alignment scores of the remaining sequence reads. VISA offers a simple web interface to upload sequence files and results are returned in a concise tabular format to allow rapid analysis of retroviral vector integration sites. 
Long et al. (BMC Bioinformatics 2014, 15(1):278) describe a “discrepancy” in using UniFrac to assess statistical significance of community differences. Specifically, they find that weighted UniFrac results differ between input trees where (a) replicate sequences each have their own tip, or (b) all replicates are assigned to one tip with an associated count. We argue that these are two distinct cases that differ in the probability distribution on which the statistical test is based, because of the differences in tree topology. Further study is needed to understand which randomization procedure best detects different aspects of community dissimilarities.
Numerous organisms have evolved a wide range of toxic peptides for self-defense and predation. Their effective interstitial and macro-environmental use requires energetic and structural stability. One successful group of these peptides includes a tri-disulfide domain arrangement that offers toxicity and high stability. Sequential tri-disulfide connectivity variants create highly compact disulfide folds capable of withstanding a variety of environmental stresses. Their combination of toxicity and stability make these peptides remarkably valuable for their potential as bio-insecticides, antimicrobial peptides and peptide drug candidates. However, the wide sequence variation, sources and modalities of group members impose serious limitations on our ability to rapidly identify potential members. As a result, there is a need for automated high-throughput member classification approaches that leverage their demonstrated tertiary and functional homology. We developed an SVM-based model to predict sequential tri-disulfide peptide (STP) toxins from peptide sequences. One optimized model, called PredSTP, predicted STPs from training set with sensitivity, specificity, precision, accuracy and a Matthews correlation coefficient of 94.86 %, 94.11 %, 84.31 %, 94.30 % and 0.86, respectively, using 200 fold cross validation. The same model outperforms existing prediction approaches in three independent out of sample testsets derived from PDB. Conclusion: PredSTP can accurately identify a wide range of cystine stabilized peptide toxins directly from sequences in a species-agnostic fashion. The ability to rapidly filter sequences for potential bioactive peptides can greatly compress the time between peptide identification and testing structural and functional properties for possible antimicrobial and insecticidal candidates. A web interface is freely available to predict STP toxins from  
The increasing abundance of neuromorphological data provides both the opportunity and the challenge to compare massive numbers of neurons from a wide diversity of sources efficiently and effectively. We implemented a modified global alignment algorithm representing axonal and dendritic bifurcations as strings of characters. Sequence alignment quantifies neuronal similarity by identifying branch-level correspondences between trees. The space generated from pairwise similarities is capable of classifying neuronal arbor types as well as, or better than, traditional topological metrics. Unsupervised cluster analysis produces groups that significantly correspond with known cell classes for axons, dendrites, and pyramidal apical dendrites. Furthermore, the distinguishing consensus topology generated by multiple sequence alignment of a group of neurons reveals their shared branching blueprint. Interestingly, the axons of dendritic-targeting interneurons in the rodent cortex associates with pyramidal axons but apart from the (more topologically symmetric) axons of perisomatic-targeting interneurons. Global pairwise and multiple sequence alignment of neurite topologies enables detailed comparison of neurites and identification of conserved topological features in alignment-defined clusters. The methods presented also provide a framework for incorporation of additional branch-level morphological features. Moreover, comparison of multiple alignment with motif analysis shows that the two techniques provide complementary information respectively revealing global and local features. 
Protein sequence alignments and database search methods use standard scoring matrices calculated from amino acid substitution frequencies in general sets of proteins. These general-purpose matrices are not optimal to align accurately sequences with marked compositional biases, such as hydrophobic transmembrane regions found in membrane proteins. In this work, an amino acid substitution matrix (GPCRtm) is calculated for the membrane spanning segments of the G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) rhodopsin family; one of the largest transmembrane protein family in humans with great importance in health and disease. The GPCRtm matrix reveals the amino acid compositional bias distinctive of the GPCR rhodopsin family and differs from other standard substitution matrices. These membrane receptors, as expected, are characterized by a high content of hydrophobic residues with regard to globular proteins. On the other hand, the presence of polar and charged residues is higher than in average membrane proteins, displaying high frequencies of replacement within themselves. Analysis of amino acid frequencies and values obtained from the GPCRtm matrix reveals patterns of residue replacements different from other standard substitution matrices. GPCRs prioritize the reactivity properties of the amino acids over their bulkiness in the transmembrane regions. A distinctive role is that charged and polar residues seem to evolve at different rates than other amino acids. This observation is related to the role of the transmembrane bundle in the binding of ligands, that in many cases involve electrostatic and hydrogen bond interactions. This new matrix can be useful in database search and for the construction of more accurate sequence alignments of GPCRs. 
RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) allows an unbiased survey of the entire transcriptome in a high-throughput manner. A major application of RNA-Seq is to detect differential isoform expression across experimental conditions, which is of great biological interest due to its direct relevance to protein function and disease pathogenesis. Detection of differential isoform expression is challenging because of uncertainty in isoform expression estimation owing to ambiguous reads and variability in precision of the estimates across samples. It is desirable to have a method that can account for these issues and is flexible enough to allow adjustment for covariates. In this paper, we present MetaDiff, a random-effects meta-regression model that naturally fits for the above purposes. Through extensive simulations and analysis of an RNA-Seq dataset on human heart failure, we show that the random-effects meta-regression approach is computationally fast, reliable, and can improve the power of differential expression analysis while controlling for false positives due to the effect of covariates or confounding variables. In contrast, several existing methods either fail to control false discovery rate or have reduced power in the presence of covariates or confounding variables. The source code, compiled JAR package and documentation of MetaDiff are freely available at  Conclusion: Our results indicate that random-effects meta-regression offers a flexible framework for differential expression analysis of isoforms, particularly when gene expression is influenced by other variables. 
The analysis of correlations of amino acid occurrences in globular domains has led to the development of statistical tools that can identify native contacts – portions of the chains that come to close distance in folded structural ensembles. Here we introduce a direct coupling analysis for repeat proteins – natural systems for which the identification of folding domains remains challenging. We show that the inherent translational symmetry of repeat protein sequences introduces a strong bias in the pair correlations at precisely the length scale of the repeat-unit. Equalizing for this bias in an objective way reveals true co-evolutionary signals from which local native contacts can be identified. Importantly, parameter values obtained for all other interactions are not significantly affected by the equalization. We quantify the robustness of the procedure and assign confidence levels to the interactions, identifying the minimum number of sequences needed to extract evolutionary information in several repeat protein families. The overall procedure can be used to reconstruct the interactions at distances larger than repeat-pairs, identifying the characteristics of the strongest couplings in each family, and can be applied to any system that appears translationally symmetric. 
The number and size of tree topologies that are being compared by phylogenetic systematists is increasing due to technological advancements in high-throughput DNA sequencing. However, we still lack tools to facilitate comparison among phylogenetic trees with a large number of terminals. The “YBYRÁ” project integrates software solutions for data analysis in phylogenetics. It comprises tools for (1) topological distance calculation based on the number of shared splits or clades, (2) sensitivity analysis and automatic generation of sensitivity plots and (3) clade diagnoses based on different categories of synapomorphies. YBYRÁ also provides (4) an original framework to facilitate the search for potential rogue taxa based on how much they affect average matching split distances (using MSdist). YBYRÁ facilitates comparison of large phylogenetic trees and outperforms competing software in terms of usability and time efficiency, specially for large data sets. The programs that comprises this toolkit are written in Python, hence they do not require installation and have minimum dependencies. The entire project is available under an open-source licence at 
The need for precise and stable taxonomic classification is highly relevant in modern microbiology. Parallel to the explosion in the amount of sequence data accessible, there has also been a shift in focus for classification methods. Previously, alignment-based methods were the most applicable tools. Now, methods based on counting K-mers by sliding windows are the most interesting classification approach with respect to both speed and accuracy. Here, we present a systematic comparison on five different K-mer based classification methods for the 16S rRNA gene. The methods differ from each other both in data usage and modelling strategies. We have based our study on the commonly known and well-used naïve Bayes classifier from the RDP project, and four other methods were implemented and tested on two different data sets, on full-length sequences as well as fragments of typical read-length. The difference in classification error obtained by the methods seemed to be small, but they were stable and for both data sets tested. The Preprocessed nearest-neighbour (PLSNN) method performed best for full-length 16S rRNA sequences, significantly better than the naïve Bayes RDP method. On fragmented sequences the naïve Bayes Multinomial method performed best, significantly better than all other methods. For both data sets explored, and on both full-length and fragmented sequences, all the five methods reached an error-plateau. We conclude that no K-mer based method is universally best for classifying both full-length sequences and fragments (reads). All methods approach an error plateau indicating improved training data is needed to improve classification from here. Classification errors occur most frequent for genera with few sequences present. For improving the taxonomy and testing new classification methods, the need for a better and more universal and robust training data set is crucial.
Substantial advances in microbiology, molecular evolution and biodiversity have been carried out in recent years thanks to Metagenomics, which allows to unveil the composition and functions of mixed microbial communities in any environmental niche. If the investigation is aimed only at the microbiome taxonomic structure, a target-based metagenomic approach, here also referred as Meta-barcoding, is generally applied. This approach commonly involves the selective amplification of a species-specific genetic marker (DNA meta-barcode) in the whole taxonomic range of interest and the exploration of its taxon-related variants through High-Throughput Sequencing (HTS) technologies. The accessibility to proper computational systems for the large-scale bioinformatic analysis of HTS data represents, currently, one of the major challenges in advanced Meta-barcoding projects. BioMaS (Bioinformatic analysis of Metagenomic AmpliconS) is a new bioinformatic pipeline designed to support biomolecular researchers involved in taxonomic studies of environmental microbial communities by a completely automated workflow, comprehensive of all the fundamental steps, from raw sequence data upload and cleaning to final taxonomic identification, that are absolutely required in an appropriately designed Meta-barcoding HTS-based experiment. In its current version, BioMaS allows the analysis of both bacterial and fungal environments starting directly from the raw sequencing data from either Roche 454 or Illumina HTS platforms, following two alternative paths, respectively. BioMaS is implemented into a public web service available at  and is also available in Galaxy at  (only for Illumina data). Conclusion: BioMaS is a friendly pipeline for Meta-barcoding HTS data analysis specifically designed for users without particular computing skills. A comparative benchmark, carried out by using a simulated dataset suitably designed to broadly represent the currently known bacterial and fungal world, showed that BioMaS outperforms QIIME and MOTHUR in terms of extent and accuracy of deep taxonomic sequence assignments. 
Infection with feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) causes an immunosuppressive disease whose consequences are less severe if cats are co-infected with an attenuated FIV strain (PLV). We use virus diversity measurements, which reflect replication ability and the virus response to various conditions, to test whether diversity of virulent FIV in lymphoid tissues is altered in the presence of PLV. Our data consisted of the 3′ half of the FIV genome from three tissues of animals infected with FIV alone, or with FIV and PLV, sequenced by 454 technology. Since rare variants dominate virus populations, we had to carefully distinguish sequence variation from errors due to experimental protocols and sequencing. We considered an exponential-normal convolution model used for background correction of microarray data, and modified it to formulate an error correction approach for minor allele frequencies derived from high-throughput sequencing. Similar to accounting for over-dispersion in counts, this accounts for error-inflated variability in frequencies – and quite effectively reproduces empirically observed distributions. After obtaining error-corrected minor allele frequencies, we applied ANalysis Of VAriance (ANOVA) based on a linear mixed model and found that conserved sites and transition frequencies in FIV genes differ among tissues of dual and single infected cats. Furthermore, analysis of minor allele frequencies at individual FIV genome sites revealed 242 sites significantly affected by infection status (dual vs. single) or infection status by tissue interaction. All together, our results demonstrated a decrease in FIV diversity in bone marrow in the presence of PLV. Importantly, these effects were weakened or undetectable when error correction was performed with other approaches (thresholding of minor allele frequencies; probabilistic clustering of reads). We also queried the data for cytidine deaminase activity on the viral genome, which causes an asymmetric increase in G to A substitutions, but found no evidence for this host defense strategy. Our error correction approach for minor allele frequencies (more sensitive and computationally efficient than other algorithms) and our statistical treatment of variation (ANOVA) were critical for effective use of high-throughput sequencing data in understanding viral diversity. We found that co-infection with PLV shifts FIV diversity from bone marrow to lymph node and spleen. 
Transmembrane proteins (TMPs) are the key components of signal transduction, cell-cell adhesion and energy and material transport into and out from the cells. For the deep understanding of these processes, structure determination of transmembrane proteins is indispensable. However, due to technical difficulties, only a few transmembrane protein structures have been determined experimentally. Large-scale genomic sequencing provides increasing amounts of sequence information on the proteins and whole proteomes of living organisms resulting in the challenge of bioinformatics; how the structural information should be gained from a sequence. Here, we present a novel method, TMFoldRec, for fold prediction of membrane segments in transmembrane proteins. TMFoldRec based on statistical potentials was tested on a benchmark set containing 124 TMP chains from the PDBTM database. Using a 10-fold jackknife method, the native folds were correctly identified in 77 % of the cases. This accuracy overcomes the state-of-the-art methods. In addition, a key feature of TMFoldRec algorithm is the ability to estimate the reliability of the prediction and to decide with an accuracy of 70 %, whether the obtained, lowest energy structure is the native one. Conclusion: These results imply that the membrane embedded parts of TMPs dictate the TM structures rather than the soluble parts. Moreover, predictions with reliability scores make in this way our algorithm applicable for proteome-wide analyses. Availability: The program is available upon request for academic use. 
Exploratory analysis of multi-dimensional high-throughput datasets, such as microarray gene expression time series, may be instrumental in understanding the genetic programs underlying numerous biological processes. In such datasets, variations in the gene expression profiles are usually observed across replicates and time points. Thus mining the temporal expression patterns in such multi-dimensional datasets may not only provide insights into the key biological processes governing organs to grow and develop but also facilitate the understanding of the underlying complex gene regulatory circuits. In this work we have developed an evolutionary multi-objective optimization for our previously introduced triclustering algorithm δ-TRIMAX. Its aim is to make optimal use of δ-TRIMAX in extracting groups of co-expressed genes from time series gene expression data, or from any 3D gene expression dataset, by adding the powerful capabilities of an evolutionary algorithm to retrieve overlapping triclusters. We have compared the performance of our newly developed algorithm, EMOA- δ-TRIMAX, with that of other existing triclustering approaches using four artificial dataset and three real-life datasets. Moreover, we have analyzed the results of our algorithm on one of these real-life datasets monitoring the differentiation of human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSC) into mature cardiomyocytes. For each group of co-expressed genes belonging to one tricluster, we identified key genes by computing their membership values within the tricluster. It turned out that to a very high percentage, these key genes were significantly enriched in Gene Ontology categories or KEGG pathways that fitted very well to the biological context of cardiomyocytes differentiation. EMOA- δ-TRIMAX has proven instrumental in identifying groups of genes in transcriptomic data sets that represent the functional categories constituting the biological process under study. The executable file can be found at -goettingen.de/fileadmin/download/EMOA-delta-TRIMAX.tar. gz. 
Class prediction models have been shown to have varying performances in clinical gene expression datasets. Previous evaluation studies, mostly done in the field of cancer, showed that the accuracy of class prediction models differs from dataset to dataset and depends on the type of classification function. While a substantial amount of information is known about the characteristics of classification functions, little has been done to determine which characteristics of gene expression data have impact on the performance of a classifier. This study aims to empirically identify data characteristics that affect the predictive accuracy of classification models, outside of the field of cancer. Datasets from twenty five studies meeting predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria were downloaded. Nine classification functions were chosen, falling within the categories: discriminant analyses or Bayes classifiers, tree based, regularization and shrinkage and nearest neighbors methods. Consequently, nine class prediction models were built for each dataset using the same procedure and their performances were evaluated by calculating their accuracies. The characteristics of each experiment were recorded, (i.e., observed disease, medical question, tissue/cell types and sample size) together with characteristics of the gene expression data, namely the number of differentially expressed genes, the fold changes and the within-class correlations. Their effects on the accuracy of a class prediction model were statistically assessed by random effects logistic regression. The number of differentially expressed genes and the average fold change had significant impact on the accuracy of a classification model and gave individual explained-variation in prediction accuracy of up to 72% and 57%, respectively. Multivariable random effects logistic regression with forward selection yielded the two aforementioned study factors and the within class correlation as factors affecting the accuracy of classification functions, explaining 91.5% of the between study variation. We evaluated study- and data-related factors that might explain the varying performances of classification functions in non-cancerous datasets. Our results showed that the number of differentially expressed genes, the fold change, and the correlation in gene expression data significantly affect the accuracy of class prediction models. 
The universal qPCR data exchange file format RDML is today well accepted by the scientific community, part of the MIQE guidelines and implemented in many qPCR instruments. With the increased use of RDML new challenges emerge. The flexibility of the RDML format resulted in some implementations that did not meet the expectations of the consortium in the level of support or the use of elements. In the current RDML version 1.2 the description of the elements was sharpened. The open source editor RDML-Ninja was released (-ninja/). RDML-Ninja allows to visualize, edit and validate RDML files and thus clarifies the use of RDML elements. Furthermore RDML-Ninja serves as reference implementation for RDML and enables migration between RDML versions independent of the instrument software. The database RDMLdb will serve as an online repository for RDML files and facilitate the exchange of RDML data (). Authors can upload their RDML files and reference them in publications by the unique identifier provided by RDMLdb. The MIQE guidelines propose a rich set of information required to document each qPCR run. RDML provides the vehicle to store and maintain this information and current development aims at further integration of MIQE requirements into the RDML format. The editor RDML-Ninja and the database RDMLdb enable scientists to evaluate and exchange qPCR data in the instrument-independent RDML format. We are confident that this infrastructure will build the foundation for standardized qPCR data exchange among scientists, research groups, and during publication.
The rapid pace of bioscience research makes it very challenging to track relevant articles in one’s area of interest. MEDLINE, a primary source for biomedical literature, offers access to more than 20 million citations with three-quarters of a million new ones added each year. Thus it is not surprising to see active research in building new document retrieval and sentence retrieval systems. We present Ferret, a prototype retrieval system, designed to retrieve and rank sentences (and their documents) conveying gene-centric relationships of interest to a scientist. The prototype has several features. For example, it is designed to handle gene name ambiguity and perform query expansion. Inputs can be a list of genes with an optional list of keywords. Sentences are retrieved across species but the species discussed in the records are identified. Results are presented in the form of a heat map and sentences corresponding to specific cells of the heat map may be selected for display. Ferret is designed to assist bio scientists at different stages of research from early idea exploration to advanced analysis of results from bench experiments. Three live case studies in the field of plant biology are presented related to Arabidopsis thaliana. The first is to discover genes that may relate to the phenotype of open immature flower in Arabidopsis. The second case is about finding associations reported between ethylene signaling and a set of 300+ Arabidopsis genes. The third case is on searching for potential gene targets of an Arabidopsis transcription factor hypothesized to be involved in plant stress responses. Ferret was successful in finding valuable information in all three cases. In the first case the bZIP family of genes was identified. In the second case sentences indicating relevant associations were found in other species such as potato and jasmine. In the third sentences led to new research questions about the plant hormone salicylic acid. Ferret successfully retrieved relevant gene-centric sentences from PubMed records. The three case studies demonstrate end user satisfaction with the system.
We consider data from a time course microarray experiment that was conducted on grapevines over the development cycle of the grape berries at two different vineyards in South Australia. Although the underlying biological process of berry development is the same at both vineyards, there are differences in the timing of the development due to local conditions. We aim to align the data from the two vineyards to enable an integrated analysis of the gene expression and use the alignment of the expression profiles to classify likely developmental function. We present a novel alignment method based on hidden Markov models (HMMs) and use the method to align the motivating grapevine data. We show that our alignment method is robust against subsets of profiles that are not suitable for alignment, investigate alignment diagnostics under the model and demonstrate the classification of developmentally driven genes. The classification of developmentally driven genes both validates that the alignment we obtain is meaningful and also gives new evidence that can be used to identify the role of genes with unknown function. Using our alignment methodology, we find at least 1279 grapevine probe sets with no current annotated function that are likely to be controlled in a developmental manner. 
Understanding living systems is crucial for curing diseases. To achieve this task we have to understand biological networks based on protein-protein interactions. Bioinformatics has come up with a great amount of databases and tools that support analysts in exploring protein-protein interactions on an integrated level for knowledge discovery. They provide predictions and correlations, indicate possibilities for future experimental research and fill the gaps to complete the picture of biochemical processes. There are numerous and huge databases of protein-protein interactions used to gain insights into answering some of the many questions of systems biology. Many computational resources integrate interaction data with additional information on molecular background. However, the vast number of diverse Bioinformatics resources poses an obstacle to the goal of understanding. We present a survey of databases that enable the visual analysis of protein networks. We selected M =10 out of N =53 resources supporting visualization, and we tested against the following set of criteria: interoperability, data integration, quantity of possible interactions, data visualization quality and data coverage. The study reveals differences in usability, visualization features and quality as well as the quantity of interactions. StringDB is the recommended first choice. CPDB presents a comprehensive dataset and IntAct lets the user change the network layout. A comprehensive comparison table is available via web. The supplementary table can be accessed on -DB-Comparison-2015. Only some web resources featuring graph visualization can be successfully applied to interactive visual analysis of protein-protein interaction. Study results underline the necessity for further enhancements of visualization integration in biochemical analysis tools. Identified challenges are data comprehensiveness, confidence, interactive feature and visualization maturing.
One aspect in which RNA sequencing is more valuable than microarray-based methods is the ability to examine the allelic imbalance of the expression of a gene. This process is often a complex task that entails quality control, alignment, and the counting of reads over heterozygous single-nucleotide polymorphisms. Allelic imbalance analysis is subject to technical biases, due to differences in the sequences of the measured alleles. Flexible bioinformatics tools are needed to ease the workflow while retaining as much RNA sequencing information as possible throughout the analysis to detect and address the possible biases. We present AllelicImblance, a software program that is designed to detect, manage, and visualize allelic imbalances comprehensively. The purpose of this software is to allow users to pose genetic questions in any RNA sequencing experiment quickly, enhancing the general utility of RNA sequencing. The visualization features can reveal notable, non-trivial allelic imbalance behavior over specific regions, such as exons. The software provides a complete framework to perform allelic imbalance analyses of aligned RNA sequencing data, from detection to visualization, within the robust and versatile management class, ASEset. 
Improvements in sequencing technology now allow easy acquisition of large datasets; however, analyzing these data for phylogenetics can be challenging. We have developed a novel method to rapidly obtain homologous genomic data for phylogenetics directly from next-generation sequencing reads without the use of a reference genome. This software, called SISRS, avoids the time consuming steps of de novo whole genome assembly, multiple genome alignment, and annotation. For simulations SISRS is able to identify large numbers of loci containing variable sites with phylogenetic signal. For genomic data from apes, SISRS identified thousands of variable sites, from which we produced an accurate phylogeny. Finally, we used SISRS to identify phylogenetic markers that we used to estimate the phylogeny of placental mammals. We recovered eight phylogenies that resolved the basal relationships among mammals using datasets with different levels of missing data. The three alternate resolutions of the basal relationships are consistent with the major hypotheses for the relationships among mammals, all of which have been supported previously by different molecular datasets. SISRS has the potential to transform phylogenetic research. This method eliminates the need for expensive marker development in many studies by using whole genome shotgun sequence data directly. SISRS is open source and freely available at  
As the next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies producing hundreds of millions of reads every day, a tremendous computational challenge is to map NGS reads to a given reference genome efficiently. However, existing methods of all-mappers, which aim at finding all mapping locations of each read, are very time consuming. The majority of existing all-mappers consist of 2 main parts, filtration and verification. This work significantly reduces verification time, which is the dominant part of the running time. An efficient all-mapper, BitMapper, is developed based on a new vectorized bit-vector algorithm, which simultaneously calculates the edit distance of one read to multiple locations in a given reference genome. Experimental results on both simulated and real data sets show that BitMapper is from several times to an order of magnitude faster than the current state-of-the-art all-mappers, while achieving higher sensitivity, i.e., better quality solutions. We present BitMapper, which is designed to return all mapping locations of raw reads containing indels as well as mismatches. BitMapper is implemented in C under a GPL license. Binaries are freely available at %7Echhy. 
Forward Time Population Genetic Simulations offer a flexible framework for modeling the various evolutionary processes occurring in nature. Often this model expressibility is countered by an increased memory usage or computational overhead. With the complexity of simulation scenarios continuing to increase, addressing the scalability of the underlying simulation framework is a growing consideration. We propose a general method for representing in silico genetic sequences using implicit data structures. We provide a generalized implementation as a C++ template library called Clotho. We compare the performance and scalability of our approach with those taken in other simulation frameworks, namely: FWDPP and simuPOP. We show that this technique offers a 4x reduction in memory utilization. Additionally, with larger scale simulation scenarios we are able to offer a speedup of 6x - 46x.
The exponential growth of next generation sequencing (NGS) data has posed big challenges to data storage, management and archive. Data compression is one of the effective solutions, where reference-based compression strategies can typically achieve superior compression ratios compared to the ones not relying on any reference. This paper presents a lossless light-weight reference-based compression algorithm namely LW-FQZip to compress FASTQ data. The three components of any given input, i.e., metadata, short reads and quality score strings, are first parsed into three data streams in which the redundancy information are identified and eliminated independently. Particularly, well-designed incremental and run-length-limited encoding schemes are utilized to compress the metadata and quality score streams, respectively. To handle the short reads, LW-FQZip uses a novel light-weight mapping model to fast map them against external reference sequence(s) and produce concise alignment results for storage. The three processed data streams are then packed together with some general purpose compression algorithms like LZMA. LW-FQZip was evaluated on eight real-world NGS data sets and achieved compression ratios in the range of 0.111-0.201. This is comparable or superior to other state-of-the-art lossless NGS data compression algorithms. LW-FQZip is a program that enables efficient lossless FASTQ data compression. It contributes to the state of art applications for NGS data storage and transmission. LW-FQZip is freely available online at: 
Comparative analysis of homologous sequences enables the understanding of evolutionary patterns at the molecular level, unraveling the functional constraints that shaped the underlying genes. Bioinformatic pipelines for comparative sequence analysis typically include procedures for (i) alignment quality assessment and (ii) control of sequence redundancy. An additional, underassessed step is the control of the amount and distribution of missing data in sequence alignments. While the number of sequences available for a given gene typically increases with time, the site-specific coverage of each alignment position remains highly variable because of differences in sequencing and annotation quality, or simply because of biological variation. For any given alignment-based analysis, the selection of sequences thus defines a trade-off between the species representation and the quantity of sites with sufficient coverage to be included in the subsequent analyses. We introduce an algorithm for the optimization of sequence alignments according to the number of sequences vs. number of sites trade-off. The algorithm uses a guide tree to compute scores for each bipartition of the alignment, allowing the recursive selection of sequence subsets with optimal combinations of sequence and site numbers. By applying our methods to two large data sets of several thousands of gene families, we show that significant site-specific coverage increases can be achieved while controlling for the species representation. The algorithm introduced in this work allows the control of the distribution of missing data in any sequence alignment by removing sequences to increase the number of sites with a defined minimum coverage. We advocate that our missing data optimization procedure in an important step which should be considered in comparative analysis pipelines, together with alignment quality assessment and control of sampled diversity. An open source C++ implementation is available at  
Imaging and image analysis advances are yielding increasingly complete and complicated records of cellular events in tissues and whole embryos. The ability to follow hundreds to thousands of cells at the individual level demands a spatio-temporal data infrastructure: tools to assemble and collate knowledge about development spatially in a manner analogous to geographic information systems (GIS). Just as GIS indexes items or events based on their spatio-temporal or 4D location on the Earth these tools would organize knowledge based on location within the tissues or embryos. Developmental processes are highly context-specific, but the complexity of the 4D environment in which they unfold is a barrier to assembling an understanding of any particular process from diverse sources of information. In the same way that GIS aids the understanding and use of geo-located large data sets, software can, with a proper frame of reference, allow large biological data sets to be understood spatially. Intuitive tools are needed to navigate the spatial structure of complex tissue, collate large data sets and existing knowledge with this spatial structure and help users derive hypotheses about developmental mechanisms. Toward this goal we have developed WormGUIDES, a mobile application that presents a 4D developmental atlas for Caenorhabditis elegans. The WormGUIDES mobile app enables users to navigate a 3D model depicting the nuclear positions of all cells in the developing embryo. The identity of each cell can be queried with a tap, and community databases searched for available information about that cell. Information about ancestry, fate and gene expression can be used to label cells and craft customized visualizations that highlight cells as potential players in an event of interest. Scenes are easily saved, shared and published to other WormGUIDES users. The mobile app is available for Android and iOS platforms. Conclusion: WormGUIDES provides an important tool for examining developmental processes and developing mechanistic hypotheses about their control. Critically, it provides the typical end user with an intuitive interface for developing and sharing custom visualizations of developmental processes. Equally important, because users can select cells based on their position and search for information about them, the app also serves as a spatially organized index into the large body of knowledge available to the C. elegans community online. Moreover, the app can be used to create and publish the result of exploration: interactive content that brings other researchers and students directly to the spatio-temporal point of insight. Ultimately the app will incorporate a detailed time lapse record of cell shape, beginning with neurons. This will add the key ability to navigate and understand the developmental events that result in the coordinated and precise emergence of anatomy, particularly the wiring of the nervous system.
Due to the large amount of data produced by advanced microscopy, automated image analysis is crucial in modern biology. Most applications require reliable cell nuclei segmentation. However, in many biological specimens cell nuclei are densely packed and appear to touch one another in the images. Therefore, a major difficulty of three-dimensional cell nuclei segmentation is the decomposition of cell nuclei that apparently touch each other. Current methods are highly adapted to a certain biological specimen or a specific microscope. They do not ensure similarly accurate segmentation performance, i.e. their robustness for different datasets is not guaranteed. Hence, these methods require elaborate adjustments to each dataset. We present an advanced three-dimensional cell nuclei segmentation algorithm that is accurate and robust. Our approach combines local adaptive pre-processing with decomposition based on Lines-of-Sight (LoS) to separate apparently touching cell nuclei into approximately convex parts. We demonstrate the superior performance of our algorithm using data from different specimens recorded with different microscopes. The three-dimensional images were recorded with confocal and light sheet-based fluorescence microscopes. The specimens are an early mouse embryo and two different cellular spheroids. We compared the segmentation accuracy of our algorithm with ground truth data for the test images and results from state-of-the-art methods. The analysis shows that our method is accurate throughout all test datasets (mean F-measure: 91 %) whereas the other methods each failed for at least one dataset (F-measure ≤ 69 %). Furthermore, nuclei volume measurements are improved for LoS decomposition. The state-of-the-art methods required laborious adjustments of parameter values to achieve these results. Our LoS algorithm did not require parameter value adjustments. The accurate performance was achieved with one fixed set of parameter values. Conclusion: We developed a novel and fully automated three-dimensional cell nuclei segmentation method incorporating LoS decomposition. LoS are easily accessible features that ensure correct splitting of apparently touching cell nuclei independent of their shape, size or intensity. Our method showed superior performance compared to state-of-the-art methods, performing accurately for a variety of test images. Hence, our LoS approach can be readily applied to quantitative evaluation in drug testing, developmental and cell biology. 
People with an autistic spectrum disorder (ASD) display a variety of characteristic behavioral traits, including impaired social interaction, communication difficulties and repetitive behavior. This complex neurodevelopment disorder is known to be associated with a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Neurexins and neuroligins play a key role in synaptogenesis and neurexin-neuroligin adhesion is one of several processes that have been implicated in autism spectrum disorders. In this report we describe the manual annotation of a selection of gene products known to be associated with autism and/or the neurexin-neuroligin-SHANK complex and demonstrate how a focused annotation approach leads to the creation of more descriptive Gene Ontology (GO) terms, as well as an increase in both the number of gene product annotations and their granularity, thus improving the data available in the GO database. The manual annotations we describe will impact on the functional analysis of a variety of future autism-relevant datasets. Comprehensive gene annotation is an essential aspect of genomic and proteomic studies, as the quality of gene annotations incorporated into statistical analysis tools affects the effective interpretation of data obtained through genome wide association studies, next generation sequencing, proteomic and transcriptomic datasets. 
Advances in the next generation sequencing technology has accelerated the pace of individualized medicine (IM), which aims to incorporate genetic/genomic information into medicine. One immediate need in interpreting sequencing data is the assembly of information about genetic variants and their corresponding associations with other entities (e.g., diseases or medications). Even with dedicated effort to capture such information in biological databases, much of this information remains ‘locked’ in the unstructured text of biomedical publications. There is a substantial lag between the publication and the subsequent abstraction of such information into databases. Multiple text mining systems have been developed, but most of them focus on the sentence level association extraction with performance evaluation based on gold standard text annotations specifically prepared for text mining systems. We developed and evaluated a text mining system, MutD, which extracts protein mutation-disease associations from MEDLINE abstracts by incorporating discourse level analysis, using a benchmark data set extracted from curated database records. MutD achieves an F-measure of 64.3 % for reconstructing protein mutation disease associations in curated database records. Discourse level analysis component of MutD contributed to a gain of more than 10 % in F-measure when compared against the sentence level association extraction. Our error analysis indicates that 23 of the 64 precision errors are true associations that were not captured by database curators and 68 of the 113 recall errors are caused by the absence of associated disease entities in the abstract. After adjusting for the defects in the curated database, the revised F-measure of MutD in association detection reaches 81.5 %. Our quantitative analysis reveals that MutD can effectively extract protein mutation disease associations when benchmarking based on curated database records. The analysis also demonstrates that incorporating discourse level analysis significantly improved the performance of extracting the protein-mutation-disease association. Future work includes the extension of MutD for full text articles.
Collective analysis of the increasingly emerging gene expression datasets are required. The recently proposed binarisation of consensus partition matrices (Bi-CoPaM) method can combine clustering results from multiple datasets to identify the subsets of genes which are consistently co-expressed in all of the provided datasets in a tuneable manner. However, results validation and parameter setting are issues that complicate the design of such methods. Moreover, although it is a common practice to test methods by application to synthetic datasets, the mathematical models used to synthesise such datasets are usually based on approximations which may not always be sufficiently representative of real datasets. Here, we propose an unsupervised method for the unification of clustering results from multiple datasets using external specifications (UNCLES). This method has the ability to identify the subsets of genes consistently co-expressed in a subset of datasets while being poorly co-expressed in another subset of datasets, and to identify the subsets of genes consistently co-expressed in all given datasets. We also propose the M-N scatter plots validation technique and adopt it to set the parameters of UNCLES, such as the number of clusters, automatically. Additionally, we propose an approach for the synthesis of gene expression datasets using real data profiles in a way which combines the ground-truth-knowledge of synthetic data and the realistic expression values of real data, and therefore overcomes the problem of faithfulness of synthetic expression data modelling. By application to those datasets, we validate UNCLES while comparing it with other conventional clustering methods, and of particular relevance, biclustering methods. We further validate UNCLES by application to a set of 14 real genome-wide yeast datasets as it produces focused clusters that conform well to known biological facts. Furthermore, in-silico-based hypotheses regarding the function of a few previously unknown genes in those focused clusters are drawn. The UNCLES method, the M-N scatter plots technique, and the expression data synthesis approach will have wide application for the comprehensive analysis of genomic and other sources of multiple complex biological datasets. Moreover, the derived in-silico-based biological hypotheses represent subjects for future functional studies. 
Infectious disease modeling and computational power have evolved such that large-scale agent-based models (ABMs) have become feasible. However, the increasing hardware complexity requires adapted software designs to achieve the full potential of current high-performance workstations. We have found large performance differences with a discrete-time ABM for close-contact disease transmission due to data locality. Sorting the population according to the social contact clusters reduced simulation time by a factor of two. Data locality and model performance can also be improved by storing person attributes separately instead of using person objects. Next, decreasing the number of operations by sorting people by health status before processing disease transmission has also a large impact on model performance. Depending of the clinical attack rate, target population and computer hardware, the introduction of the sort phase decreased the run time from 26 % up to more than 70 %. We have investigated the application of parallel programming techniques and found that the speedup is significant but it drops quickly with the number of cores. We observed that the effect of scheduling and workload chunk size is model specific and can make a large difference. Investment in performance optimization of ABM simulator code can lead to significant run time reductions. The key steps are straightforward: the data structure for the population and sorting people on health status before effecting disease propagation. We believe these conclusions to be valid for a wide range of infectious disease ABMs. We recommend that future studies evaluate the impact of data management, algorithmic procedures and parallelization on model performance. 
RNA-Seq provides remarkable power in the area of biomarkers discovery and disease characterization. Two crucial steps that affect RNA-Seq experiment results are Library Sample Preparation (LSP) and Bioinformatics Analysis (BA). This work describes an evaluation of the combined effect of LSP methods and BA tools in the detection of splice variants. Different LSPs (TruSeq unstranded/stranded, ScriptSeq, NuGEN) allowed the detection of a large common set of splice variants. However, each LSP also detected a small set of unique transcripts that are characterized by a low coverage and/or FPKM. This effect was particularly evident using the low input RNA NuGEN v2 protocol.A benchmark dataset, in which synthetic reads as well as reads generated from standard (Illumina TruSeq 100) and low input (NuGEN) LSPs were spiked-in was used to evaluate the effect of LSP on the statistical detection of alternative splicing events (AltDE). Statistical detection of AltDE was done using as prototypes for splice variant-quantification Cuffdiff2 and RSEM-EBSeq. As prototype for exon-level analysis DEXSeq was used. Exon-level analysis performed slightly better than splice variant-quantification approaches, although at most only 50% of the spiked-in transcripts was detected. The performances of both splice variant-quantification and exon-level analysis improved when raising the number of input reads. Conclusion: Data, derived from NuGEN v2, were not the ideal input for AltDE, especially when the exon-level approach was used. We observed that both splice variant-quantification and exon-level analysis performances were strongly dependent on the number of input reads. Moreover, the ribosomal RNA depletion protocol was less sensitive in detecting splicing variants, possibly due to the significant percentage of the reads mapping to non-coding transcripts.
Introduction: Riboswitches are cis-acting regulatory RNA elements prevalently located in the leader sequences of bacterial mRNA. An adenine sensing riboswitch cis-regulates adeninosine deaminase gene (add) in Vibrio vulnificus. The structural mechanism regulating its conformational changes upon ligand binding mostly remains to be elucidated. In this open framework it has been suggested that the ligand stabilizes the interaction of the distal "kissing loop" complex. Using accurate full-atom molecular dynamics with explicit solvent in combination with enhanced sampling techniques and advanced analysis methods it could be possible to provide a more detailed perspective on the formation of these tertiary contacts. Methods: In this work, we used umbrella sampling simulations to study the thermodynamics of the kissing loop complex in the presence and in the absence of the cognate ligand. We enforced the breaking/formation of the loop-loop interaction restraining the distance between the two loops. We also assessed the convergence of the results by using two alternative initialization protocols. A structural analysis was performed using a novel approach to analyze base contacts. Contacts between the two loops were progressively lost when larger inter-loop distances were enforced. Inter-loop Watson-Crick contacts survived at larger separation when compared with non-canonical pairing and stacking interactions. Intra-loop stacking contacts remained formed upon loop undocking. Our simulations qualitatively indicated that the ligand could stabilize the kissing loop complex. We also compared with previously published simulation studies. Discussion and Kissing complex stabilization given by the ligand was compatible with available experimental data. However, the dependence of its value on the initialization protocol of the umbrella sampling simulations posed some questions on the quantitative interpretation of the results and called for better converged enhanced sampling simulations.
Tumour markers are standard tools for the differential diagnosis of cancer. However, the occurrence of nonspecific symptoms and different malignancies involving the same cancer site may lead to a high proportion of misclassifications.Classification accuracy can be improved by combining information from different markers using standard data mining techniques, like Decision Tree (DT), Artificial Neural Network (ANN), and k-Nearest Neighbour (KNN) classifier. Unfortunately, each method suffers from some unavoidable limitations. DT, in general, tends to show a low classification performance, whereas ANN and KNN produce a "black-box" classification that does not provide biological information useful for clinical purposes. Methods: Logic Learning Machine (LLM) is an innovative method of supervised data analysis capable of building classifiers described by a set of intelligible rules including simple conditions in their antecedent part. It is essentially an efficient implementation of the Switching Neural Network model and reaches excellent classification accuracy while keeping low the computational demand.LLM was applied to data from a consecutive cohort of 169 patients admitted for diagnosis to two pulmonary departments in Northern Italy from 2009 to 2011. Patients included 52 malignant pleural mesotheliomas (MPM), 62 pleural metastases (MTX) from other tumours and 55 benign diseases (BD) associated with pleurisies. Concentration of three tumour markers (CEA, CYFRA 21-1 and SMRP) was measured in the pleural fluid of each patient and a cytological examination was also carried out.The performance of LLM and that of three competing methods (DT, KNN and ANN) was assessed by leave-one-out cross-validation. LLM outperformed all other considered methods. Global accuracy was 77.5% for LLM, 72.8% for DT, 54.4% for KNN, and 63.9% for ANN, respectively. In more details, LLM correctly classified 79% of MPM, 66% of MTX and 89% of BD. The corresponding figures for DT were: MPM = 83%, MTX = 55% and BD = 84%; for KNN: MPM = 58%, MTX = 45%, BD = 62%; for ANN: MPM = 71%, MTX = 47%, BD = 76%.Finally, LLM provided classification rules in a very good agreement with a priori knowledge about the biological role of the considered tumour markers. LLM is a new flexible tool potentially useful for the differential diagnosis of pleural mesothelioma.
The high throughput of modern NGS sequencers coupled with the huge sizes of genomes currently analysed, poses always higher algorithmic challenges to align short reads quickly and accurately against a reference sequence. A crucial, additional, requirement is that the data structures used should be light. The available modern solutions usually are a compromise between the mentioned constraints: in particular, indexes based on the Burrows-Wheeler transform offer reduced memory requirements at the price of lower sensitivity, while hash-based text indexes guarantee high sensitivity at the price of significant memory consumption. Methods: In this work we describe a technique that permits to attain the advantages granted by both classes of indexes. This is achieved using Hamming-aware hash functions--hash functions designed to search the entire Hamming sphere in reduced time--which are also homomorphisms on de Bruijn graphs. We show that, using this particular class of hash functions, the corresponding hash index can be represented in linear space introducing only a logarithmic slowdown (in the query length) for the lookup operation. We point out that our data structure reaches its goals without compressing its input: another positive feature, as in biological applications data is often very close to be un-compressible. The new data structure introduced in this work is called dB-hash and we show how its implementation--BW-ERNE--maintains the high sensitivity and speed of its (hash-based) predecessor ERNE, while drastically reducing space consumption. Extensive comparison experiments conducted with several popular alignment tools on both simulated and real NGS data, show, finally, that BW-ERNE is able to attain both the positive features of succinct data structures (that is, small space) and hash indexes (that is, sensitivity). In applications where space and speed are both a concern, standard methods often sacrifice accuracy to obtain competitive throughputs and memory footprints. In this work we show that, combining hashing and succinct indexing techniques, we can attain good performances and accuracy with a memory footprint comparable to that of the most popular compressed indexes.
This Preface introduces the content of the BioMed Central journal Supplements related to BITS2014 meeting, held in Rome, Italy, from the 26th to the 28th of February, 2014.
The understanding of mechanisms and functions of microRNAs (miRNAs) is fundamental for the study of many biological processes and for the elucidation of the pathogenesis of many human diseases. Technological advances represented by high-throughput technologies, such as microarray and next-generation sequencing, have significantly aided miRNA research in the last decade. Nevertheless, the identification of true miRNA targets and the complete elucidation of the rules governing their functional targeting remain nebulous. Computational tools have been proven to be fundamental for guiding experimental validations for the discovery of new miRNAs, for the identification of their targets and for the elucidation of their regulatory mechanisms. Description: ComiRNet (Co-clustered miRNA Regulatory Networks) is a web-based database specifically designed to provide biologists and clinicians with user-friendly and effective tools for the study of miRNA-gene target interaction data and for the discovery of miRNA functions and mechanisms. Data in ComiRNet are produced by a combined computational approach based on: 1) a semi-supervised ensemble-based classifier, which learns to combine miRNA-gene target interactions (MTIs) from several prediction algorithms, and 2) the biclustering algorithm HOCCLUS2, which exploits the large set of produced predictions, with the associated probabilities, to identify overlapping and hierarchically organized biclusters that represent miRNA-gene regulatory networks (MGRNs). ComiRNet represents a valuable resource for elucidating the miRNAs' role in complex biological processes by exploiting data on their putative function in the context of MGRNs. ComiRnet currently stores about 5 million predicted MTIs between 934 human miRNAs and 30,875 mRNAs, as well as 15 bicluster hierarchies, each of which represents MGRNs at different levels of granularity. The database can be freely accessed at: 
Many biological laboratories that deal with genomic samples are facing the problem of sample tracking, both for pure laboratory management and for efficiency. Our laboratory exploits PCR techniques and Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) methods to perform high-throughput integration site monitoring in different clinical trials and scientific projects. Because of the huge amount of samples that we process every year, which result in hundreds of millions of sequencing reads, we need to standardize data management and tracking systems, building up a scalable and flexible structure with web-based interfaces, which are usually called Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS). Methods: We started collecting end-users' requirements, composed of desired functionalities of the system and Graphical User Interfaces (GUI), and then we evaluated available tools that could address our requirements, spanning from pure LIMS to Content Management Systems (CMS) up to enterprise information systems. Our analysis identified ADempiere ERP, an open source Enterprise Resource Planning written in Java J2EE, as the best software that also natively implements some highly desirable technological advances, such as the high usability and modularity that grants high use-case flexibility and software scalability for custom solutions. We extended and customized ADempiere ERP to fulfil LIMS requirements and we developed adLIMS. It has been validated by our end-users verifying functionalities and GUIs through test cases for PCRs samples and pre-sequencing data and it is currently in use in our laboratories. adLIMS implements authorization and authentication policies, allowing multiple users management and roles definition that enables specific permissions, operations and data views to each user. For example, adLIMS allows creating sample sheets from stored data using available exporting operations. This simplicity and process standardization may avoid manual errors and information backtracking, features that are not granted using track recording on files or spreadsheets. adLIMS aims to combine sample tracking and data reporting features with higher accessibility and usability of GUIs, thus allowing time to be saved on doing repetitive laboratory tasks, and reducing errors with respect to manual data collection methods. Moreover, adLIMS implements automated data entry, exploiting sample data multiplexing and parallel/transactional processing. adLIMS is natively extensible to cope with laboratory automation through platform-dependent API interfaces, and could be extended to genomic facilities due to the ERP functionalities.
Mathematical and computational modelling of biochemical systems has seen a lot of effort devoted to the definition and implementation of high-performance mechanistic simulation frameworks. Within these frameworks it is possible to analyse complex models under a variety of configurations, eventually selecting the best setting of, e.g., parameters for a target system. Motivation: This operational pipeline relies on the ability to interpret the predictions of a model, often represented as simulation time-series. Thus, an efficient data analysis pipeline is crucial to automatise time-series analyses, bearing in mind that errors in this phase might mislead the modeller's conclusions. For this reason we have developed an intuitive framework-independent Python tool to automate analyses common to a variety of modelling approaches. These include assessment of useful non-trivial statistics for simulation ensembles, e.g., estimation of master equations. Intuitive and domain-independent batch scripts will allow the researcher to automatically prepare reports, thus speeding up the usual model-definition, testing and refinement pipeline.
Both differential expression (DE) and differential co-expression (DC) analyses are appreciated as useful tools in understanding gene regulation related to complex diseases. The performance of integrating DE and DC, however, remains unexplored. In this study, we proposed a novel analytical approach called DECODE (Differential Co-expression and Differential Expression) to integrate DC and DE analyses of gene expression data. DECODE allows one to study the combined features of DC and DE of each transcript between two conditions. By incorporating information of the dependency between DC and DE variables, two optimal thresholds for defining substantial change in expression and co-expression are systematically defined for each gene based on chi-square maximization. By using these thresholds, genes can be categorized into four groups with either high or low DC and DE characteristics. In this study, DECODE was applied to a large breast cancer microarray data set consisted of two thousand tumor samples. By identifying genes with high DE and high DC, we demonstrated that DECODE could improve the detection of some functional gene sets such as those related to immune system, metastasis, lipid and glucose metabolism. Further investigation on the identified genes and the associated functional pathways would provide an additional level of understanding of complex disease mechanism. By complementing the recent DC and the traditional DE analyses, DECODE is a valuable methodology for investigating biological functions of genes exhibiting disease-associated DE and DC combined characteristics, which may not be easily revealed through DC or DE approach alone.DECODE is available at the Comprehensive R Archive Network (CRAN): -project.org/web/packages/decode/index.html. 
The Electron Microscopy DataBank (EMDB) is growing rapidly, accumulating biological structural data obtained mainly by electron microscopy and tomography, which are emerging techniques for determining large biomolecular complex and subcellular structures. Together with the Protein Data Bank (PDB), EMDB is becoming a fundamental resource of the tertiary structures of biological macromolecules. To take full advantage of this indispensable resource, the ability to search the database by structural similarity is essential. However, unlike high-resolution structures stored in PDB, methods for comparing low-resolution electron microscopy (EM) density maps in EMDB are not well established. We developed a computational method for efficiently searching low-resolution EM maps. The method uses a compact fingerprint representation of EM maps based on the 3D Zernike descriptor, which is derived from a mathematical series expansion for EM maps that are considered as 3D functions. The method is implemented in a web server named EM-SURFER, which allows users to search against the entire EMDB in real-time. EM-SURFER compares the global shapes of EM maps. Examples of search results from different types of query structures are discussed. We developed EM-SURFER, which retrieves structurally relevant matches for query EM maps from EMDB within seconds. The unique capability of EM-SURFER to detect 3D shape similarity of low-resolution EM maps should prove invaluable in structural biology.
Protein function in eukaryotic cells is often controlled in a cell cycle-dependent manner. Therefore, the correct assignment of cellular phenotypes to cell cycle phases is a crucial task in cell biology research. Nuclear proteins whose localization varies during the cell cycle are valuable and frequently used markers of cell cycle progression. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is a protein which is involved in DNA replication and has cell cycle dependent properties. In this work, we present a tool to identify cell cycle phases and in particular, sub-stages of the DNA replication phase (S-phase) based on the characteristic patterns of PCNA distribution. Single time point images of PCNA-immunolabeled cells are acquired using confocal and widefield fluorescence microscopy. In order to discriminate different cell cycle phases, an optimized processing pipeline is proposed. For this purpose, we provide an in-depth analysis and selection of appropriate features for classification, an in-depth evaluation of different classification algorithms, as well as a comparative analysis of classification performance achieved with confocal versus widefield microscopy images. We show that the proposed processing chain is capable of automatically classifying cell cycle phases in PCNA-immunolabeled cells from single time point images, independently of the technique of image acquisition. Comparison of confocal and widefield images showed that for the proposed approach, the overall classification accuracy is slightly higher for confocal microscopy images. Conclusion: Overall, automated identification of cell cycle phases and in particular, sub-stages of the DNA replication phase (S-phase) based on the characteristic patterns of PCNA distribution, is feasible for both confocal and widefield images.
Several methods exist for the prediction of precursor miRNAs (pre-miRNAs) in genomic or sRNA-seq (small RNA sequences) data produced by NGS (Next Generation Sequencing). One key information used for this task is the characteristic hairpin structure adopted by pre-miRNAs, that in general are identified using RNA folders whose complexity is cubic in the size of the input. The vast majority of pre-miRNA predictors then rely on further information learned from previously validated miRNAs from the same or a closely related genome for the final prediction of new miRNAs. With this paper, we wished to address three main issues. The first was methodological and aimed at obtaining a more time-efficient predictor, however without losing in accuracy which represented a second issue. We indeed aimed at better predicting miRNAs at a genome scale, but also from sRNAseq data where in some cases, notably of plants, the current folding methods often infer the wrong structure. The third issue is related to the fact that it is important to rely as little as possible on previously recorded examples of miRNAs. We therefore also sought a method that is less dependent on previous miRNA records. As concerns the first and second issues, we present a novel alternative to a classical folder based on a thermodynamic Nearest-Neighbour (NN) model for computing the free energy and predicting the classical hairpin structure of a pre-miRNA. We show that the free energies thus computed correlate well with those of RNAfold. This novel method, called Mirinho, has quadratic instead of cubic complexity and is much more efficient also in practice. When applied to sRNAseq data of plants, it gives in general better results than classical folders. On the third issue, we show that Mirinho, which uses as only knowledge the length of the loops and stem-arms and the free energy of the pre-miRNA hairpin, compares well with algorithms that require more information. The results, obtained with different datasets, are indeed similar to those of other approaches with which such a comparison was possible. These needed to be publicly available softwares that could be used on a large input. In some cases, Mirinho is even better in terms of sensitivity or precision. Conclusion: We provide a simpler and much faster method with very reasonable sensitivity and precision, which can be applied without special adaptation to the prediction of both animal and plant pre-miRNAs, using as input either genomic sequences or sRNA-seq data. 
Evolutionary variations let us define a set of similar nucleic acid sequences as a family if these different molecules execute a common function. Capturing their sequence variation by using e. g. position specific scoring matrices significantly improves sensitivity of detection tools. Members of a functional (non‐coding) RNA family are affected by these variations not only on the sequence, but also on the structural level. For example, some transfer‐RNAs exhibit a fifth helix in addition to the typical cloverleaf structure. Current covariance models – the unrivaled homology search approach for structured RNA – do not benefit from structural variation within a family, but rather penalize it. This leads to artificial subdivision of families and loss of information in the Rfam database. We propose an extension to the fundamental architecture of covariance models to allow for several, compatible consensus structures. The resulting models are called ambivalent covariance models. Evaluation on several Rfam families shows that coalescence of structural variation within a family by using ambivalent consensus models is superior to subdividing the family into multiple classical covariance models. Conclusion: A prototype and source code is available at ‐bielefeld.de/acms. 
In host-pathogen systems the development of immunity by the host places pressure on pathogens, by setting up competition between genetic variants due to the establishment of cross-protective responses. These pressures can lead to pathogen-specific, ubiquitous dynamic behaviours. Understanding the evolutionary forces that shape these patterns is one of the key goals of computationally simulated epidemiological models. Despite the contribution of such research methods in recent years to our current understanding of pathogen evolution, the availability of free software tools for the general public remains scarce. We developed the Multilocus ANTIgenic Simulator (MANTIS) software package for the R statistical environment. MANTIS can simulate and analyse epidemiological time-series generated under the biological assumptions of the strain theory of host-pathogen systems by Gupta et al. MANTIS wraps a C/C++ ordinary-differential equations system and Runge-Kutta solver into a set of user-friendly R functions. These include routines to numerically simulate the system and others to analyse, visualize and export results. For this, the package offers its own set of time-series plotting and exportation functions. MANTIS’s main goal is to serve as a free, ready-to-use academic software tool. Its open source nature further provides an opportunity for users with advanced programming skills to expand its capabilities. Here, we describe the background theory, implementation, basic functionality and usage of this package. MANTIS is freely available from  the GPL license. 
The Immunoglobulins (IG) and the T cell receptors (TR) play the key role in antigen recognition during the adaptive immune response. Recent progress in next-generation sequencing technologies has provided an opportunity for the deep T cell receptor repertoire profiling. However, a specialised software is required for the rational analysis of massive data generated by next-generation sequencing. Here we introduce tcR, a new R package, representing a platform for the advanced analysis of T cell receptor repertoires, which includes diversity measures, shared T cell receptor sequences identification, gene usage statistics computation and other widely used methods. The tool has proven its utility in recent research studies. tcR is an R package for the advanced analysis of T cell receptor repertoires after primary TR sequences extraction from raw sequencing reads. The stable version can be directly installed from The Comprehensive R Archive Network (-project.org/mirrors.html). The source code and development version are available at tcR GitHub () along with the full documentation and typical usage examples.
The subcellular distribution of synapses is fundamentally important for the assembly, function, and plasticity of the nervous system. Automated and effective quantification tools are a prerequisite to large-scale studies of the molecular mechanisms of subcellular synapse distribution. Common practices for synapse quantification in neuroscience labs remain largely manual or semi-manual. This is mainly due to computational challenges in automatic quantification of synapses, including large volume, high dimensions and staining artifacts. In the case of confocal imaging, optical limit and xy-z resolution disparity also require special considerations to achieve the necessary robustness. A novel algorithm is presented in the paper for learning-guided automatic recognition and quantification of synaptic markers in 3D confocal images. The method developed a discriminative model based on 3D feature descriptors that detected the centers of synaptic markers. It made use of adaptive thresholding and multi-channel co-localization to improve the robustness. The detected markers then guided the splitting of synapse clumps, which further improved the precision and recall of the detected synapses. Algorithms were tested on lobula plate tangential cells (LPTCs) in the brain of Drosophila melanogaster, for GABAergic synaptic markers on axon terminals as well as dendrites. The presented method was able to overcome the staining artifacts and the fuzzy boundaries of synapse clumps in 3D confocal image, and automatically quantify synaptic markers in a complex neuron such as LPTC. Comparison with some existing tools used in automatic 3D synapse quantification also proved the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Identifying protein complexes is an essential task for understanding the mechanisms of proteins in cells. Many computational approaches have thus been developed to identify protein complexes in protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. Regarding the information that can be adopted by computational approaches to identify protein complexes, in addition to the graph topology of PPI network, the consideration of functional information of proteins has been becoming popular recently. Relevant approaches perform their tasks by relying on the idea that proteins in the same protein complex may be associated with similar functional information. However, we note from our previous researches that for most protein complexes their proteins are only similar in specific subsets of categories of functional information instead of the entire set. Hence, if the preference of each functional category can also be taken into account when identifying protein complexes, the accuracy will be improved. To implement the idea, we first introduce a preference vector for each of proteins to quantitatively indicate the preference of each functional category when deciding the protein complex this protein belongs to. Integrating functional preferences of proteins and the graph topology of PPI network, we formulate the problem of identifying protein complexes into a constrained optimization problem, and we propose the approach DCAFP to address it. For performance evaluation, we have conducted extensive experiments with several PPI networks from the species of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Human and also compared DCAFP with state-of-the-art approaches in the identification of protein complexes. The experimental results show that considering the integration of functional preferences and dense structures improved the performance of identifying protein complexes, as DCAFP outperformed the other approaches for most of PPI networks based on the assessments of independent measures of f-measure, Accuracy and Maximum Matching Rate. Furthermore, the function enrichment experiments indicated that DCAFP identified more protein complexes with functional significance when compared with approaches, such as PCIA, that also utilize the functional information. According to the promising performance of DCAFP, the integration of functional preferences and dense structures has made it possible to identify protein complexes more accurately and significantly.
Weighted and un-weighted protein residue networks can predict key functional residues in proteins based on the closeness centrality C and betweenness centrality B values for each residue. A static snapshot of the protein structure, and a cutoff distance, are used to define edges between the network nodes. In this work we apply the weighted network approach to study the β-Lactamase Inhibitory Protein (BLIP). Joint recurrences extracted from molecular dynamics MD trajectory positions of the protein residue carbon alpha atoms are used to define edge weights between nodes, and no cutoff distance is used. The results for B and C from our approach are compared with those extracted from an un-weighted network, and a weighted network that uses interatomic contacts to define edge weights between nodes, respectively. The joint recurrence weighted network approach performs well in pointing out key protein residues. Furthermore, it seems to emphasize residues with medium to high relative solvent accessibility that lie in loop regions between secondary structure elements of the protein. Protein residue networks that use joint recurrences extracted from molecular dynamics simulations of a solvated protein perform well in pointing to hotspot residues and hotspot clusters. This approach uses no distance cutoff threshold, and does not exclude any interactions between the residues, including water-mediated interactions.
High-throughput technologies such as flow and mass cytometry have the potential to illuminate cellular networks. However, analyzing the data produced by these technologies is challenging. Visualization is needed to help researchers explore this data. We developed a web-based software program, NetworkPainter, to enable researchers to analyze dynamic cytometry data in the context of pathway diagrams. NetworkPainter provides researchers a graphical interface to draw and “paint” pathway diagrams with experimental data, producing animated diagrams which display the activity of each network node at each time point. Conclusion: NetworkPainter enables researchers to more fully explore multi-parameter, dynamical cytometry data. 
A variety of DNA binding proteins are involved in regulating and shaping the packing of chromatin. They aid the formation of loops in the DNA that function to isolate different structural domains. A recent experimental technique, Hi-C, provides a method for determining the frequency of such looping between all distant parts of the genome. Given that the binding locations of many chromatin associated proteins have also been measured, it has been possible to make estimates for their influence on the long-range interactions as measured by Hi-C. However, a challenge in this analysis is the predominance of non-specific contacts that mask out the specific interactions of interest. We show that transforming the Hi-C contact frequencies into free energies gives a natural method for separating out the distance dependent non-specific interactions. In particular we apply Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to the transformed free energy matrix to identify the dominant modes of interaction. PCA identifies systematic effects as well as high frequency spatial noise in the Hi-C data which can be filtered out. Thus it can be used as a data driven approach for normalizing Hi-C data. We assess this PCA based normalization approach, along with several other normalization schemes, by fitting the transformed Hi-C data using a pairwise interaction model that takes as input the known locations of bound chromatin factors. The result of fitting is a set of predictions for the coupling energies between the various chromatin factors and their effect on the energetics of looping. We show that the quality of the fit can be used as a means to determine how much PCA filtering should be applied to the Hi-C data. We find that the different normalizations of the Hi-C data vary in the quality of fit to the pairwise interaction model. PCA filtering can improve the fit, and the predicted coupling energies lead to biologically meaningful insights for how various chromatin bound factors influence the stability of DNA loops in chromatin. 
Partitioning the human immunoglobulin variable region into variable (V), diversity (D), and joining (J) segments is a common sequence analysis step. We introduce a novel approximate dynamic programming method that uses conserved immunoglobulin gene motifs to improve performance of aligning V-segments of rearranged immunoglobulin (Ig) genes. Our new algorithm enhances the former JOINSOLVER algorithm by processing sequences with insertions and/or deletions (indels) and improves the efficiency for large datasets provided by high throughput sequencing. In our simulations, which include rearrangements with indels, the V-matching success rate improved from 61% for partial alignments of sequences with indels in the original algorithm to over 99% in the approximate algorithm. An improvement in the alignment of human VDJ rearrangements over the initial JOINSOLVER algorithm was also seen when compared to the Stanford.S22 human Ig dataset with an online VDJ partitioning software evaluation tool. HTJoinSolver can rapidly identify V- and J-segments with indels to high accuracy for mutated sequences when the mutation probability is around 30% and 20% respectively. The D-segment is much harder to fit even at 20% mutation probability. For all segments, the probability of correctly matching V, D, and J increases with our alignment score.
Set comparisons permeate a large number of data analysis workflows, in particular workflows in biological sciences. Venn diagrams are frequently employed for such analysis but current tools are limited. We have developed InteractiVenn, a more flexible tool for interacting with Venn diagrams including up to six sets. It offers a clean interface for Venn diagram construction and enables analysis of set unions while preserving the shape of the diagram. Set unions are useful to reveal differences and similarities among sets and may be guided in our tool by a tree or by a list of set unions. The tool also allows obtaining subsets’ elements, saving and loading sets for further analyses, and exporting the diagram in vector and image formats. InteractiVenn has been used to analyze two biological datasets, but it may serve set analysis in a broad range of domains. InteractiVenn allows set unions in Venn diagrams to be explored thoroughly, by consequence extending the ability to analyze combinations of sets with additional observations, yielded by novel interactions between joined sets. InteractiVenn is freely available online at: www.interactivenn.net.
Deep mutational scanning is a technique to estimate the impacts of mutations on a gene by using deep sequencing to count mutations in a library of variants before and after imposing a functional selection. The impacts of mutations must be inferred from changes in their counts after selection. I describe a software package, dms_tools, to infer the impacts of mutations from deep mutational scanning data using a likelihood-based treatment of the mutation counts. I show that dms_tools yields more accurate inferences on simulated data than simply calculating ratios of counts pre- and post-selection. Using dms_tools, one can infer the preference of each site for each amino acid given a single selection pressure, or assess the extent to which these preferences change under different selection pressures. The preferences and their changes can be intuitively visualized with sequence-logo-style plots created using an extension to weblogo. dms_tools implements a statistically principled approach for the analysis and subsequent visualization of deep mutational scanning data.
Traditional cancer treatments have centered on cytotoxic drugs and general purpose chemotherapy that may not be tailored to treat specific cancers. Identification of molecular markers that are related to different types of cancers might lead to discovery of drugs that are patient and disease specific. This study aims to use microarray gene expression cancer data to identify biomarkers that are indicative of different types of cancers. Our aim is to provide a multi-class cancer classifier that can simultaneously differentiate between cancers and identify type-specific biomarkers, through the application of the Binary Coded Genetic Algorithm (BCGA) and a neural network based Extreme Learning Machine (ELM) algorithm. BCGA and ELM are combined and used to select a subset of genes that are present in the Global Cancer Mapping (GCM) data set. This set of candidate genes contains over 52 biomarkers that are related to multiple cancers, according to the literature. They include APOA1, VEGFC, YWHAZ, B2M, EIF2S1, CCR9 and many other genes that have been associated with the hallmarks of cancer. BCGA-ELM is tested on several cancer data sets and the results are compared to other classification methods. BCGA-ELM compares or exceeds other algorithms in terms of accuracy. We were also able to show that over 50% of genes selected by BCGA-ELM on GCM data are cancer related biomarkers. We were able to simultaneously differentiate between 14 different types of cancers, using only 92 genes, to achieve a multi-class classification accuracy of 95.4% which is between 21.6% and 38% higher than other results in the literature for multi-class cancer classification. Our findings suggest that computational algorithms such as BCGA-ELM can facilitate biomarker-driven integrated cancer research that can lead to a detailed understanding of the complexities of cancer. 
The well-known Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) had led to many scientific discoveries using SNP data. Even so, they were not able to explain the full heritability of complex diseases. Now, other structural variants like copy number variants or DNA inversions, either germ-line or in mosaicism events, are being studies. We present the R package affy2sv to pre-process Affymetrix CytoScan HD/750k array (also for Genome-Wide SNP 5.0/6.0 and Axiom) in structural variant studies. We illustrate the capabilities of affy2sv using two different complete pipelines on real data. The first one performing a GWAS and a mosaic alterations detection study, and the other detecting CNVs and performing an inversion calling. Conclusion: Both examples presented in the article show up how affy2sv can be used as part of more complex pipelines aimed to analyze Affymetrix SNP arrays data in genetic association studies, where different types of structural variants are considered. 
High-throughput methods are generating biological data on a vast scale. In many instances, genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic data must be interpreted in the context of signaling and metabolic pathways to yield testable hypotheses. Since humans can interpret visual information rapidly, a means for interactive visual exploration that lets biologists interpret such data in a comprehensive and exploratory manner would be invaluable. However, humans have limited memory capacity. Current visualization tools have limited viewing and manipulation capabilities to address complex data analysis problems, and visual exploratory tools are needed to reduce the high mental workload imposed on biologists. We present PathRings, a new interactive web-based, scalable biological pathway visualization tool for biologists to explore and interpret biological pathways. PathRings integrates metabolic and signaling pathways from Reactome in a single compound graph visualization, and uses color to highlight genes and pathways affected by input data. Pathways are available for multiple species and analysis of user-defined species or input is also possible. PathRings permits an overview of the impact of gene expression data on all pathways to facilitate visual pattern finding. Detailed pathways information can be opened in new visualizations while maintaining the overview, that form a visual exploration provenance. A dynamic multi-view bubbles interface is designed to support biologists’ analytical tasks by letting users construct incremental views that further reflect biologists’ analytical process. This approach decomposes complex tasks into simpler ones and automates multi-view management. PathRings has been designed to accommodate interactive visual analysis of experimental data in the context of pathways defined by Reactome. Our new approach to interface design can effectively support comparative tasks over substantially larger collection than existing tools. The dynamic interaction among multi-view dataset visualization improves the data exploration. PathRings is available free at ~sunliang/PathRings and the source code is hosted on Github:  
Host-microbe and microbe-microbe interactions are often governed by the complex exchange of metabolites. Such interactions play a key role in determining the way pathogenic and commensal species impact their host and in the assembly of complex microbial communities. Recently, several studies have demonstrated how such interactions are reflected in the organization of the metabolic networks of the interacting species, and introduced various graph theory-based methods to predict host-microbe and microbe-microbe interactions directly from network topology. Using these methods, such studies have revealed evolutionary and ecological processes that shape species interactions and community assembly, highlighting the potential of this reverse-ecology research paradigm. NetCooperate is a web-based tool and a software package for determining host-microbe and microbe-microbe cooperative potential. It specifically calculates two previously developed and validated metrics for species interaction: the Biosynthetic Support Score which quantifies the ability of a host species to supply the nutritional requirements of a parasitic or a commensal species, and the Metabolic Complementarity Index which quantifies the complementarity of a pair of microbial organisms’ niches. NetCooperate takes as input a pair of metabolic networks, and returns the pairwise metrics as well as a list of potential syntrophic metabolic compounds. The Biosynthetic Support Score and Metabolic Complementarity Index provide insight into host-microbe and microbe-microbe metabolic interactions. NetCooperate determines these interaction indices from metabolic network topology, and can be used for small- or large-scale analyses. NetCooperate is provided as both a web-based tool and an open-source Python module; both are freely available online at 
Adjusting the capacity of metabolic pathways in response to rapidly changing environmental conditions is an important component of microbial adaptation strategies to stochastic environments. In this work, we use advanced dynamic optimization techniques combined with theoretical models to study which reactions in pathways are optimally targeted by regulatory interactions in order to minimize the regulatory effort that is required to adjust the flux through a complex metabolic network. Moreover, we analyze how constraints in the speed at which an organism can respond on a proteomic level influences these optimal targets of pathway control. We find that limitations in protein biosynthetic rates have a strong influence. With increasing protein biosynthetic rates the regulatory effort targeting the initial enzyme in a pathway is reduced while the regulatory effort in the terminal enzyme is increased. Studying the impact of allosteric regulation for different pathway topologies, we find that the presence of feedback inhibition by products of metabolic pathways allows organisms to reduce the regulatory effort that is required to control a metabolic pathway in all cases. In a linear pathway this even leads to the case where the sole transcriptional regulatory control of the terminal enzyme is sufficient to control flux through the entire pathway. We confirm the utilization of these pathway regulation strategies through the large-scale analysis of transcriptional regulation in several hundred prokaryotes. This work expands our knowledge about optimal programs of pathway control. Optimal targets of pathway control strongly depend on the speed at which proteins can be synthesized. Moreover, post-translational regulation such as allosteric regulation allows to strongly reduce the number of transcriptional regulatory interactions required to control a metabolic pathway across different pathway topologies. 
The exponential growth of protein structural and sequence databases is enabling multifaceted approaches to understanding the long sought sequence-structure-function relationship. Advances in computation now make it possible to apply well-established data mining and pattern recognition techniques to these data to learn models that effectively relate structure and function. However, extracting meaningful numerical descriptors of protein sequence and structure is a key issue that requires an efficient and widely available solution. We here introduce ProtDCal, a new computational software suite capable of generating tens of thousands of features considering both sequence-based and 3D-structural descriptors. We demonstrate, by means of principle component analysis and Shannon entropy tests, how ProtDCal’s sequence-based descriptors provide new and more relevant information not encoded by currently available servers for sequence-based protein feature generation. The wide diversity of the 3D-structure-based features generated by ProtDCal is shown to provide additional complementary information and effectively completes its general protein encoding capability. As demonstration of the utility of ProtDCal’s features, prediction models of N-linked glycosylation sites are trained and evaluated. Classification performance compares favourably with that of contemporary predictors of N-linked glycosylation sites, in spite of not using domain-specific features as input information. ProtDCal provides a friendly and cross-platform graphical user interface, developed in the Java programming language and is freely available at:  ProtDCal introduces local and group-based encoding which enhances the diversity of the information captured by the computed features. Furthermore, we have shown that adding structure-based descriptors contributes non-redundant additional information to the features-based characterization of polypeptide systems. This software is intended to provide a useful tool for general-purpose encoding of protein sequences and structures for applications is protein classification, similarity analyses and function prediction. 
Gene regulatory networks describe the interplay between genes and their products. These networks control almost every biological activity in the cell through interactions. The hierarchy of genes in these networks as defined by their interactions gives important insights into how these functions are governed. Accurately determining the hierarchy of genes is however a computationally difficult problem. This problem is further complicated by the fact that an intrinsic characteristic of regulatory networks is that the wiring of interactions can change over time. Determining how the hierarchy in the gene regulatory networks changes with dynamically evolving network topology remains to be an unsolved challenge. In this study, we develop a new method, named D-HIDEN (Dynamic-HIerarchical DEcomposition of Networks) to find the hierarchy of the genes in dynamically evolving gene regulatory network topologies. Unlike earlier methods, which recompute the hierarchy from scratch when the network topology changes, our method adapts the hierarchy based on the wiring of the interactions only for the nodes which have the potential to move in the hierarchy. We compare D-HIDEN to five currently available hierarchical decomposition methods on synthetic and real gene regulatory networks. Our experiments demonstrate that D-HIDEN significantly outperforms existing methods in running time, accuracy, or both. Furthermore, our method is robust against dynamic changes in hierarchy. Our experiments on human gene regulatory networks suggest that our method may be used to reconstruct hierarchy in gene regulatory networks.
Rapid evolutions in sequencing technology force read mappers into flexible adaptation to longer reads, changing error models, memory barriers and novel applications. ALFALFA achieves a high performance in accurately mapping long single-end and paired-end reads to gigabase-scale reference genomes, while remaining competitive for mapping shorter reads. Its seed-and-extend workflow is underpinned by fast retrieval of super-maximal exact matches from an enhanced sparse suffix array, with flexible parameter tuning to balance performance, memory footprint and accuracy. ALFALFA is open source and available at  
Founder populations have an important role in the study of genetic diseases. Access to detailed genealogical records is often one of their advantages. These genealogical data provide unique information for researchers in evolutionary and population genetics, demography and genetic epidemiology. However, analyzing large genealogical datasets requires specialized methods and software. The GENLIB software was developed to study the large genealogies of the French Canadian population of Quebec, Canada. These genealogies are accessible through the BALSAC database, which contains over 3 million records covering the whole province of Quebec over four centuries. Using this resource, extended pedigrees of up to 17 generations can be constructed from a sample of present-day individuals. We have extended and implemented GENLIB as a package in the R environment for statistical computing and graphics, thus allowing optimal flexibility for users. The GENLIB package includes basic functions to manage genealogical data allowing, for example, extraction of a part of a genealogy or selection of specific individuals. There are also many functions providing information to describe the size and complexity of genealogies as well as functions to compute standard measures such as kinship, inbreeding and genetic contribution. GENLIB also includes functions for gene-dropping simulations.The goal of this paper is to present the full functionalities of GENLIB. We used a sample of 140 individuals from the province of Quebec (Canada) to demonstrate GENLIB’s functions. Ascending genealogies for these individuals were reconstructed using BALSAC, yielding a large pedigree of 41,523 individuals. Using GENLIB’s functions, we provide a detailed description of these genealogical data in terms of completeness, genetic contribution of founders, relatedness, inbreeding and the overall complexity of the genealogical tree. We also present gene-dropping simulations based on the whole genealogy to investigate identical-by-descent sharing of alleles and chromosomal segments of different lengths and estimate probabilities of identical-by-descent sharing. The R package GENLIB provides a user friendly and flexible environment to analyze extensive genealogical data, allowing an efficient and easy integration of different types of data, analytical methods and additional developments and making this tool ideal for genealogical analysis. 
Biomedical knowledge bases (KB’s) have become important assets in life sciences. Prior work on KB construction has three major limitations. First, most biomedical KBs are manually built and curated, and cannot keep up with the rate at which new findings are published. Second, for automatic information extraction (IE), the text genre of choice has been scientific publications, neglecting sources like health portals and online communities. Third, most prior work on IE has focused on the molecular level or chemogenomics only, like protein-protein interactions or gene-drug relationships, or solely address highly specific topics such as drug effects. We address these three limitations by a versatile and scalable approach to automatic KB construction. Using a small number of seed facts for distant supervision of pattern-based extraction, we harvest a huge number of facts in an automated manner without requiring any explicit training.We extend previous techniques for pattern-based IE with confidence statistics, and we combine this recall-oriented stage with logical reasoning for consistency constraint checking to achieve high precision. To our knowledge, this is the first method that uses consistency checking for biomedical relations. Our approach can be easily extended to incorporate additional relations and constraints.We ran extensive experiments not only for scientific publications, but also for encyclopedic health portals and online communities, creating different KB’s based on different configurations. We assess the size and quality of each KB, in terms of number of facts and precision. The best configured KB, KnowLife, contains more than 500,000 facts at a precision of 93% for 13 relations covering genes, organs, diseases, symptoms, treatments, as well as environmental and lifestyle risk factors. Conclusion: KnowLife is a large knowledge base for health and life sciences, automatically constructed from different Web sources. As a unique feature, KnowLife is harvested from different text genres such as scientific publications, health portals, and online communities. Thus, it has the potential to serve as one-stop portal for a wide range of relations and use cases. To showcase the breadth and usefulness, we make the KnowLife KB accessible through the health portal (-inf.mpg.de). 
Effective management of patients with diabetic foot infection is a crucial concern. A delay in prescribing appropriate antimicrobial agent can lead to amputation or life threatening complications. Thus, this electronic nose (e-nose) technique will provide a diagnostic tool that will allow for rapid and accurate identification of a pathogen. This study investigates the performance of e-nose technique performing direct measurement of static headspace with algorithm and data interpretations which was validated by Headspace SPME-GC-MS, to determine the causative bacteria responsible for diabetic foot infection. The study was proposed to complement the wound swabbing method for bacterial culture and to serve as a rapid screening tool for bacteria species identification. The investigation focused on both single and poly microbial subjected to different agar media cultures. A multi-class technique was applied including statistical approaches such as Support Vector Machine (SVM), K Nearest Neighbor (KNN), Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) as well as neural networks called Probability Neural Network (PNN). Most of classifiers successfully identified poly and single microbial species with up to 90% accuracy. The results obtained from this study showed that the e-nose was able to identify and differentiate between poly and single microbial species comparable to the conventional clinical technique. It also indicates that even though poly and single bacterial species in different agar solution emit different headspace volatiles, they can still be discriminated and identified using multivariate techniques.
Tumour samples containing distinct sub-populations of cancer and normal cells present challenges in the development of reproducible biomarkers, as these biomarkers are based on bulk signals from mixed tumour profiles. ISOpure is the only mRNA computational purification method to date that does not require a paired tumour-normal sample, provides a personalized cancer profile for each patient, and has been tested on clinical data. Replacing mixed tumour profiles with ISOpure-preprocessed cancer profiles led to better prognostic gene signatures for lung and prostate cancer. To simplify the integration of ISOpure into standard R-based bioinformatics analysis pipelines, the algorithm has been implemented as an R package. The ISOpureR package performs analogously to the original code in estimating the fraction of cancer cells and the patient cancer mRNA abundance profile from tumour samples in four cancer datasets. The ISOpureR package estimates the fraction of cancer cells and personalized patient cancer mRNA abundance profile from a mixed tumour profile. This open-source R implementation enables integration into existing computational pipelines, as well as easy testing, modification and extension of the model. 
The interactions between pathogen proteins and their hosts allow pathogens to manipulate host cellular mechanisms to their advantage. The identification of host proteins that are targeted by virulent pathogen proteins is crucial to increase our understanding of infection mechanisms and to propose new therapeutics that target pathogens. Understanding the virulence mechanisms of pathogens requires a detailed molecular description of the proteins involved, but acquiring this knowledge is time consuming and prohibitively expensive. Therefore, we develop a statistical method based on hypothesis testing to compare the time series obtained from conversion of the physicochemical characteristics of the amino acids that form the primary structure of proteins and thus to propose potential functional relation between proteins. We called this algorithm the multiple spectral comparison algorithm (MSCA); the MSCA was inspired by the BLASTP tool and was implemented in R code. The algorithm compares and relates multiple time series according to their spectral similarities, and the biological relation between them could be interpreted as either a similar function or protein-protein interaction (PPI). A simulation study showed that the MSCA works satisfactorily well when we compare unequal time series generated from ARMA processes because its power was close to 1. The MSCA presented a 70% average accuracy of detecting protein interactions using a threshold of 0.7 for our spectral measure, indicating that this algorithm could predict novel PPIs and pathogen-host interactions (PHIs) with acceptable confidence. The MSCA also was validated by its identification of well-known interactions of the human proteins MAGI1, SCRIB and JAK1, as well as interactions of the virulence proteins ROP16, ROP18, ROP17 and ROP5. We verified the spectral similarities for human intraspecific PPIs and PHIs that were previously demonstrated experimentally by other authors. We suggest that human GBP (GTPase group induced by interferon) and the CREB transcription factor family could be human substrates for the complex of ROP18, ROP17 and ROP5. Using multiple-hypothesis testing between the spectral densities of a set of unequal time series, we developed an algorithm that is able to identify the similarities or interactions between a set of proteins. 
Orthologous protein detection software mostly uses pairwise comparisons of amino-acid sequences to assert whether two proteins are orthologous or not. Accordingly, when the number of sequences for comparison increases, the number of comparisons to compute grows in a quadratic order. A current challenge of bioinformatic research, especially when taking into account the increasing number of sequenced organisms available, is to make this ever-growing number of comparisons computationally feasible in a reasonable amount of time. We propose to speed up the detection of orthologous proteins by using strings of domains to characterize the proteins. We present two new protein similarity measures, a cosine and a maximal weight matching score based on domain content similarity, and new software, named porthoDom. The qualities of the cosine and the maximal weight matching similarity measures are compared against curated datasets. The measures show that domain content similarities are able to correctly group proteins into their families. Accordingly, the cosine similarity measure is used inside porthoDom, the wrapper developed for proteinortho. porthoDom makes use of domain content similarity measures to group proteins together before searching for orthologs. By using domains instead of amino acid sequences, the reduction of the search space decreases the computational complexity of an all-against-all sequence comparison. Conclusion: We demonstrate that representing and comparing proteins as strings of discrete domains, i.e. as a concatenation of their unique identifiers, allows a drastic simplification of search space. porthoDom has the advantage of speeding up orthology detection while maintaining a degree of accuracy similar to proteinortho. The implementation of porthoDom is released using python and C++ languages and is available under the GNU GPL licence 3 at  
Phylogenetic-based classification of M. tuberculosis and other bacterial genomes is a core analysis for studying evolutionary hypotheses, disease outbreaks and transmission events. Whole genome sequencing is providing new insights into the genomic variation underlying intra- and inter-strain diversity, thereby assisting with the classification and molecular barcoding of the bacteria. One roadblock to strain investigation is the lack of user-interactive solutions to interrogate and visualise variation within a phylogenetic tree setting. We have developed a web-based tool called PhyTB () to assist phylogenetic tree visualisation and identification of M. tuberculosis clade-informative polymorphism. Variant Call Format files can be uploaded to determine a sample position within the tree. A map view summarises the geographical distribution of alleles and strain-types. The utility of the PhyTB is demonstrated on sequence data from 1,601 M. tuberculosis isolates. Conclusion: PhyTB contextualises M. tuberculosis genomic variation within epidemiological, geographical and phylogenic settings. Further tool utility is possible by incorporating large variants and phenotypic data (e.g. drug-resistance profiles), and an assessment of genotype-phenotype associations. Source code is available to develop similar websites for other organisms ().
Analyzing the amino acid sequence of an intrinsically disordered protein (IDP) in an evolutionary context can yield novel insights on the functional role of disordered regions and sequence element(s). However, in the case of many IDPs, the lack of evolutionary conservation of the primary sequence can hamper the study of functionality, because the conservation of their disorder profile and ensuing function(s) may not appear in a traditional analysis of the evolutionary history of the protein. Here we present DisCons (Disorder Conservation), a novel pipelined tool that combines the quantification of sequence- and disorder conservation to classify disordered residue positions. According to this scheme, the most interesting categories (for functional purposes) are constrained disordered residues and flexible disordered residues. The former residues show conservation of both the sequence and the property of disorder and are associated mainly with specific binding functionalities (e.g., short, linear motifs, SLiMs), whereas the latter class correspond to segments where disorder as a feature is important for function as opposed to the identity of the underlying sequence (e.g., entropic chains and linkers). DisCons therefore helps with elucidating the function(s) arising from the disordered state by analyzing individual proteins as well as large-scale proteomics datasets. DisCons is an openly accessible sequence analysis tool that identifies and highlights structurally disordered segments of proteins where the conformational flexibility is conserved across homologs, and therefore potentially functional. The tool is freely available both as a web application and as stand-alone source code hosted at 
OMICs technologies allow to assay the state of a large number of different features (e.g., mRNA expression, miRNA expression, copy number variation, DNA methylation, etc.) from the same samples. The objective of these experiments is usually to find a reduced set of significant features, which can be used to differentiate the conditions assayed. In terms of development of novel feature selection computational methods, this task is challenging for the lack of fully annotated biological datasets to be used for benchmarking. A possible way to tackle this problem is generating appropriate synthetic datasets, whose composition and behaviour are fully controlled and known a priori. Here we propose a novel method centred on the generation of networks of interactions among different biological molecules, especially involved in regulating gene expression. Synthetic datasets are obtained from ordinary differential equations based models with known parameters. Our results show that the generated datasets are well mimicking the behaviour of real data, for popular data analysis methods are able to selectively identify existing interactions. The proposed method can be used in conjunction to real biological datasets in the assessment of data mining techniques. The main strength of this method consists in the full control on the simulated data while retaining coherence with the real biological processes. The R package MVBioDataSim is freely available to the scientific community at  
Chip-seq experiments are becoming a standard approach for genome-wide profiling protein-DNA interactions, such as detecting transcription factor binding sites, histone modification marks and RNA Polymerase II occupancy. However, when comparing a ChIP sample versus a control sample, such as Input DNA, normalization procedures have to be applied in order to remove experimental source of biases. Despite the substantial impact that the choice of the normalization method can have on the results of a ChIP-seq data analysis, their assessment is not fully explored in the literature. In particular, there are no diagnostic tools that show whether the applied normalization is indeed appropriate for the data being analyzed. In this work we propose a novel diagnostic tool to examine the appropriateness of the estimated normalization procedure. By plotting the empirical densities of log relative risks in bins of equal read count, along with the estimated normalization constant, after logarithmic transformation, the researcher is able to assess the appropriateness of the estimated normalization constant. We use the diagnostic plot to evaluate the appropriateness of the estimates obtained by CisGenome, NCIS and CCAT on several real data examples. Moreover, we show the impact that the choice of the normalization constant can have on standard tools for peak calling such as MACS or SICER. Finally, we propose a novel procedure for controlling the FDR using sample swapping. This procedure makes use of the estimated normalization constant in order to gain power over the naive choice of constant (used in MACS and SICER), which is the ratio of the total number of reads in the ChIP and Input samples. Linear normalization approaches aim to estimate a scale factor, r, to adjust for different sequencing depths when comparing ChIP versus Input samples. The estimated scaling factor can easily be incorporated in many peak caller algorithms to improve the accuracy of the peak identification. The diagnostic plot proposed in this paper can be used to assess how adequate ChIP/Input normalization constants are, and thus it allows the user to choose the most adequate estimate for the analysis. 
Electronic medical record (EMR) systems have become widely used throughout the world to improve the quality of healthcare and the efficiency of hospital services. A bilingual medical lexicon of Chinese and English is needed to meet the demand for the multi-lingual and multi-national treatment. We make efforts to extract a bilingual lexicon from English and Chinese discharge summaries with a small seed lexicon. The lexical terms can be classified into two categories: single-word terms (SWTs) and multi-word terms (MWTs). For SWTs, we use a label propagation (LP; context-based) method to extract candidates of translation pairs. For MWTs, which are pervasive in the medical domain, we propose a term alignment method, which firstly obtains translation candidates for each component word of a Chinese MWT, and then generates their combinations, from which the system selects a set of plausible translation candidates. We compare our LP method with a baseline method based on simple context-similarity. The LP based method outperforms the baseline with the accuracies: 4.44% Acc1, 24.44% Acc10, and 62.22% Acc100, where AccN means the top N accuracy. The accuracy of the LP method drops to 5.41% Acc10 and 8.11% Acc20 for MWTs. Our experiments show that the method based on term alignment improves the performance for MWTs to 16.22% Acc10 and 27.03% Acc20. We constructed a framework for building an English-Chinese term dictionary from discharge summaries in the two languages. Our experiments have shown that the LP-based method augmented with the term alignment method will contribute to reduction of manual work required to compile a bilingual sydictionary of clinical terms.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) aim at finding genetic markers that are significantly associated with a phenotype of interest. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data from the entire genome are collected for many thousands of SNP markers, leading to high-dimensional regression problems where the number of predictors greatly exceeds the number of observations. Moreover, these predictors are statistically dependent, in particular due to linkage disequilibrium (LD).We propose a three-step approach that explicitly takes advantage of the grouping structure induced by LD in order to identify common variants which may have been missed by single marker analyses (SMA). In the first step, we perform a hierarchical clustering of SNPs with an adjacency constraint using LD as a similarity measure. In the second step, we apply a model selection approach to the obtained hierarchy in order to define LD blocks. Finally, we perform Group Lasso regression on the inferred LD blocks. We investigate the efficiency of this approach compared to state-of-the art regression methods: haplotype association tests, SMA, and Lasso and Elastic-Net regressions. Our results on simulated data show that the proposed method performs better than state-of-the-art approaches as soon as the number of causal SNPs within an LD block exceeds 2. Our results on semi-simulated data and a previously published HIV data set illustrate the relevance of the proposed method and its robustness to a real LD structure. The method is implemented in the R package BALD (Blockwise Approach using Linkage Disequilibrium), available from -evry.cnrs.fr/publications/logiciels. Our results show that the proposed method is efficient not only at the level of LD blocks by inferring well the underlying block structure but also at the level of individual SNPs. Thus, this study demonstrates the importance of tailored integration of biological knowledge in high-dimensional genomic studies such as GWAS. 
Profiling gene expression in brain structures at various spatial and temporal scales is essential to understanding how genes regulate the development of brain structures. The Allen Developing Mouse Brain Atlas provides high-resolution 3-D in situ hybridization (ISH) gene expression patterns in multiple developing stages of the mouse brain. Currently, the ISH images are annotated with anatomical terms manually. In this paper, we propose a computational approach to annotate gene expression pattern images in the mouse brain at various structural levels over the course of development. We applied deep convolutional neural network that was trained on a large set of natural images to extract features from the ISH images of developing mouse brain. As a baseline representation, we applied invariant image feature descriptors to capture local statistics from ISH images and used the bag-of-words approach to build image-level representations. Both types of features from multiple ISH image sections of the entire brain were then combined to build 3-D, brain-wide gene expression representations. We employed regularized learning methods for discriminating gene expression patterns in different brain structures. Results show that our approach of using convolutional model as feature extractors achieved superior performance in annotating gene expression patterns at multiple levels of brain structures throughout four developing ages. Overall, we achieved average AUC of 0.894 ± 0.014, as compared with 0.820 ± 0.046 yielded by the bag-of-words approach. Deep convolutional neural network model trained on natural image sets and applied to gene expression pattern annotation tasks yielded superior performance, demonstrating its transfer learning property is applicable to such biological image sets.
Recently, several studies have drawn attention to the determination of a minimum set of driver proteins that are important for the control of the underlying protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. In general, the minimum dominating set (MDS) model is widely adopted. However, because the MDS model does not generate a unique MDS configuration, multiple different MDSs would be generated when using different optimization algorithms. Therefore, among these MDSs, it is difficult to find out the one that represents the true driver set of proteins. To address this problem, we develop a centrality-corrected minimum dominating set (CC-MDS) model which includes heterogeneity in degree and betweenness centralities of proteins. Both the MDS model and the CC-MDS model are applied on three human PPI networks. Unlike the MDS model, the CC-MDS model generates almost the same sets of driver proteins when we implement it using different optimization algorithms. The CC-MDS model targets more high-degree and high-betweenness proteins than the uncorrected counterpart. The more central position allows CC-MDS proteins to be more important in maintaining the overall network connectivity than MDS proteins. To indicate the functional significance, we find that CC-MDS proteins are involved in, on average, more protein complexes and GO annotations than MDS proteins. We also find that more essential genes, aging genes, disease-associated genes and virus-targeted genes appear in CC-MDS proteins than in MDS proteins. As for the involvement in regulatory functions, the sets of CC-MDS proteins show much stronger enrichment of transcription factors and protein kinases. The results about topological and functional significance demonstrate that the CC-MDS model can capture more driver proteins than the MDS model. Based on the results obtained, the CC-MDS model presents to be a powerful tool for the determination of driver proteins that can control the underlying PPI networks. The software described in this paper and the datasets used are available at -ccnu/CC-MDS. 
Modern biotechnologies often result in high-dimensional data sets with many more variables than observations (n≪p). These data sets pose new challenges to statistical analysis: Variable selection becomes one of the most important tasks in this setting. Similar challenges arise if in modern data sets from observational studies, e.g., in ecology, where flexible, non-linear models are fitted to high-dimensional data. We assess the recently proposed flexible framework for variable selection called stability selection. By the use of resampling procedures, stability selection adds a finite sample error control to high-dimensional variable selection procedures such as Lasso or boosting. We consider the combination of boosting and stability selection and present results from a detailed simulation study that provide insights into the usefulness of this combination. The interpretation of the used error bounds is elaborated and insights for practical data analysis are given. Stability selection with boosting was able to detect influential predictors in high-dimensional settings while controlling the given error bound in various simulation scenarios. The dependence on various parameters such as the sample size, the number of truly influential variables or tuning parameters of the algorithm was investigated. The results were applied to investigate phenotype measurements in patients with autism spectrum disorders using a log-linear interaction model which was fitted by boosting. Stability selection identified five differentially expressed amino acid pathways. Conclusion: Stability selection is implemented in the freely available R package stabs (-project.org/package=stabs). It proved to work well in high-dimensional settings with more predictors than observations for both, linear and additive models. The original version of stability selection, which controls the per-family error rate, is quite conservative, though, this is much less the case for its improvement, complementary pairs stability selection. Nevertheless, care should be taken to appropriately specify the error bound. 
The demand for high-throughput and objective phenotyping in plant research has been increasing during the last years due to large experimental sites. Sensor-based, non-invasive and automated processes are needed to overcome the phenotypic bottleneck, which limits data volumes on account of manual evaluations. A major challenge for sensor-based phenotyping in vineyards is the distinction between the grapevine in the foreground and the field in the background – this is especially the case for red-green-blue (RGB) images, where similar color distributions occur both in the foreground plant and in the field and background plants. However, RGB cameras are a suitable tool in the field because they provide high-resolution data at fast acquisition rates with robustness to outdoor illumination. This study presents a method to segment the phenotypic classes ‘leaf’, ‘stem’, ‘grape’ and ‘background’ in RGB images that were taken with a standard consumer camera in vineyards. Background subtraction is achieved by taking two images of each plant for depth reconstruction. The color information is furthermore used to distinguish the leaves from stem and grapes in the foreground. The presented approach allows for objective computation of phenotypic traits like 3D leaf surface areas and fruit-to-leaf ratios. The method has been successfully applied to objective assessment of growth habits of new breeding lines. To this end, leaf areas of two breeding lines were monitored and compared with traditional cultivars. A statistical analysis of the method shows a significant (p <0.001) determination coefficient R 2= 0.93 and root-mean-square error of 3.0%. The presented approach allows for non-invasive, fast and objective assessment of plant growth. The main contributions of this study are 1) the robust segmentation of RGB images taken from a standard consumer camera directly in the field, 2) in particular, the robust background subtraction via reconstruction of dense depth maps, and 3) phenotypic applications to monitoring of plant growth and computation of fruit-to-leaf ratios in 3D. This advance provides a promising tool for high-throughput, automated image acquisition, e.g., for field robots. 
Bisulphite sequencing enables the detection of cytosine methylation. The sequence of the methylation states of cytosines on any given read forms a methylation pattern that carries substantially more information than merely studying the average methylation level at individual positions. In order to understand better the complexity of DNA methylation landscapes in biological samples, it is important to study the diversity of these methylation patterns. However, the accurate quantification of methylation patterns is subject to sequencing errors and spurious signals due to incomplete bisulphite conversion of cytosines. A statistical model is developed which accounts for the distribution of DNA methylation patterns at any given locus. The model incorporates the effects of sequencing errors and spurious reads, and enables estimation of the true underlying distribution of methylation patterns. Calculation of the estimated distribution over methylation patterns is implemented in the R Bioconductor package MPFE. Source code and documentation of the package are also available for download at  
Recent advances in synthetic biology have provided tools to efficiently construct complex DNA molecules which are an important part of many molecular biology and biotechnology projects. The planning of such constructs has traditionally been done manually using a DNA sequence editor which becomes error-prone as scale and complexity of the construction increase. A human-readable formal description of cloning and assembly strategies, which also allows for automatic computer simulation and verification, would therefore be a valuable tool. We have developed pydna, an extensible, free and open source Python library for simulating basic molecular biology DNA unit operations such as restriction digestion, ligation, PCR, primer design, Gibson assembly and homologous recombination. A cloning strategy expressed as a pydna script provides a description that is complete, unambiguous and stable. Execution of the script automatically yields the sequence of the final molecule(s) and that of any intermediate constructs. Pydna has been designed to be understandable for biologists with limited programming skills by providing interfaces that are semantically similar to the description of molecular biology unit operations found in literature. Pydna simplifies both the planning and sharing of cloning strategies and is especially useful for complex or combinatorial DNA molecule construction. An important difference compared to existing tools with similar goals is the use of Python instead of a specifically constructed language, providing a simulation environment that is more flexible and extensible by the user. 
For many years now, binding preferences of Transcription Factors have been described by so called motifs, usually mathematically defined by position weight matrices or similar models, for the purpose of predicting potential binding sites. However, despite the availability of thousands of motif models in public and commercial databases, a researcher who wants to use them is left with many competing methods of identifying potential binding sites in a genome of interest and there is little published information regarding the optimality of different choices. Thanks to the availability of large number of different motif models as well as a number of experimental datasets describing actual binding of TFs in hundreds of TF-ChIP-seq pairs, we set out to perform a comprehensive analysis of this matter. We focus on the task of identifying potential transcription factor binding sites in the human genome. Firstly, we provide a comprehensive comparison of the coverage and quality of models available in different databases, showing that the public databases have comparable TFs coverage and better motif performance than commercial databases. Secondly, we compare different motif scanners showing that, regardless of the database used, the tools developed by the scientific community outperform the commercial tools. Thirdly, we calculate for each motif a detection threshold optimizing the accuracy of prediction. Finally, we provide an in-depth comparison of different methods of choosing thresholds for all motifs a priori. Surprisingly, we show that selecting a common false-positive rate gives results that are the least biased by the information content of the motif and therefore most uniformly accurate. Conclusion: We provide a guide for researchers working with transcription factor motifs. It is supplemented with detailed results of the analysis and the benchmark datasets at  
Existing de novo software platforms have largely overlooked a valuable resource, the expertise of the intended biologist users. Typical data representations such as long gene lists, or highly dense and overlapping transcription factor networks often hinder biologists from relating these results to their expertise. VISIONET, a streamlined visualisation tool built from experimental needs, enables biologists to transform large and dense overlapping transcription factor networks into sparse human-readable graphs via numerically filtering. The VISIONET interface allows users without a computing background to interactively explore and filter their data, and empowers them to apply their specialist knowledge on far more complex and substantial data sets than is currently possible. Applying VISIONET to the Tbx20-Gata4 transcription factor network led to the discovery and validation of Aldh1a2, an essential developmental gene associated with various important cardiac disorders, as a healthy adult cardiac fibroblast gene co-regulated by cardiogenic transcription factors Gata4 and Tbx20. We demonstrate with experimental validations the utility of VISIONET for expertise-driven gene discovery that opens new experimental directions that would not otherwise have been identified. 
This article provides an overview of the first BioASQ challenge, a competition on large-scale biomedical semantic indexing and question answering (QA), which took place between March and September 2013. BioASQ assesses the ability of systems to semantically index very large numbers of biomedical scientific articles, and to return concise and user-understandable answers to given natural language questions by combining information from biomedical articles and ontologies. The 2013 BioASQ competition comprised two tasks, Task 1a and Task 1b. In Task 1a participants were asked to automatically annotate new PubMed documents with MeSH headings. Twelve teams participated in Task 1a, with a total of 46 system runs submitted, and one of the teams performing consistently better than the MTI indexer used by NLM to suggest MeSH headings to curators. Task 1b used benchmark datasets containing 29 development and 282 test English questions, along with gold standard (reference) answers, prepared by a team of biomedical experts from around Europe and participants had to automatically produce answers. Three teams participated in Task 1b, with 11 system runs. The BioASQ infrastructure, including benchmark datasets, evaluation mechanisms, and the results of the participants and baseline methods, is publicly available. A publicly available evaluation infrastructure for biomedical semantic indexing and QA has been developed, which includes benchmark datasets, and can be used to evaluate systems that: assign MeSH headings to published articles or to English questions; retrieve relevant RDF triples from ontologies, relevant articles and snippets from PubMed Central; produce “exact” and paragraph-sized “ideal” answers (summaries). The results of the systems that participated in the 2013 BioASQ competition are promising. In Task 1a one of the systems performed consistently better from the NLM’s MTI indexer. In Task 1b the systems received high scores in the manual evaluation of the “ideal” answers; hence, they produced high quality summaries as answers. Overall, BioASQ helped obtain a unified view of how techniques from text classification, semantic indexing, document and passage retrieval, question answering, and text summarization can be combined to allow biomedical experts to obtain concise, user-understandable answers to questions reflecting their real information needs. 
Feature extraction (FE) is difficult, particularly if there are more features than samples, as small sample numbers often result in biased outcomes or overfitting. Furthermore, multiple sample classes often complicate FE because evaluating performance, which is usual in supervised FE, is generally harder than the two-class problem. Developing sample classification independent unsupervised methods would solve many of these problems. Two principal component analysis (PCA)-based FE, specifically, variational Bayes PCA (VBPCA) was extended to perform unsupervised FE, and together with conventional PCA (CPCA)-based unsupervised FE, were tested as sample classification independent unsupervised FE methods. VBPCA- and CPCA-based unsupervised FE both performed well when applied to simulated data, and a posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD)-mediated heart disease data set that had multiple categorical class observations in mRNA/microRNA expression of stressed mouse heart. A critical set of PTSD miRNAs/mRNAs were identified that show aberrant expression between treatment and control samples, and significant, negative correlation with one another. Moreover, greater stability and biological feasibility than conventional supervised FE was also demonstrated. Based on the results obtained, in silico drug discovery was performed as translational validation of the methods. Our two proposed unsupervised FE methods (CPCA- and VBPCA-based) worked well on simulated data, and outperformed two conventional supervised FE methods on a real data set. Thus, these two methods have suggested equivalence for FE on categorical multiclass data sets, with potential translational utility for in silico drug discovery. 
?
?
?
?
?
?
This report summarizes the scientific content and activities of the first edition of the Latin American Symposium organized by the Student Council of the International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB), held in conjunction with the Third Latin American conference from the International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB-LA 2014) in Belo Horizonte, Brazil, on October 27, 2014.
?
The interpretation of the results from genome-scale experiments is a challenging and important problem in contemporary biomedical research. Biological networks that integrate experimental results with existing knowledge from biomedical databases and published literature can provide a rich resource and powerful basis for hypothesizing about mechanistic explanations for observed gene-phenotype relationships. However, the size and density of such networks often impede their efficient exploration and understanding. We introduce a visual analytics approach that integrates interactive filtering of dense networks based on degree-of-interest functions with attribute-based layouts of the resulting subnetworks. The comparison of multiple subnetworks representing different analysis facets is facilitated through an interactive super-network that integrates brushing-and-linking techniques for highlighting components across networks. An implementation is freely available as a Cytoscape app. We demonstrate the utility of our approach through two case studies using a dataset that combines clinical data with high-throughput data for studying the effect of β-blocker treatment on heart failure patients. Furthermore, we discuss our team-based iterative design and development process as well as the limitations and generalizability of our approach. 
Quality control is a necessary step of any Next Generation Sequencing analysis. Although customary, this step still requires manual interventions to empirically choose tuning parameters according to various quality statistics. Moreover, current quality control procedures that provide a “good quality” data set, are not optimal and discard many informative nucleotides. To address these drawbacks, we present a new quality control method, implemented in UrQt software, for Unsupervised Quality trimming of Next Generation Sequencing reads. Our trimming procedure relies on a well-defined probabilistic framework to detect the best segmentation between two segments of unreliable nucleotides, framing a segment of informative nucleotides. Our software only requires one user-friendly parameter to define the minimal quality threshold (phred score) to consider a nucleotide to be informative, which is independent of both the experiment and the quality of the data. This procedure is implemented in C++ in an efficient and parallelized software with a low memory footprint. We tested the performances of UrQt compared to the best-known trimming programs, on seven RNA and DNA sequencing experiments and demonstrated its optimality in the resulting tradeoff between the number of trimmed nucleotides and the quality objective. By finding the best segmentation to delimit a segment of good quality nucleotides, UrQt greatly increases the number of reads and of nucleotides that can be retained for a given quality objective. UrQt source files, binary executables for different operating systems and documentation are freely available (under the GPLv3) at the following address: -lyon1.fr/-UrQt-.html. 
Characterization of respiratory phenotypes can enhance complex trait and genomic studies involving allergic/autoimmune and infectious diseases. Many aspects of respiration can be measured using devices known as plethysmographs that can measure thoracic movement. One such approach (the Buxco platform) performs unrestrained whole body plethysmography on mice which infers thoracic movements from pressure differences from the act of inhalation and exhalation. While proprietary software is available to perform basic statistical analysis as part of machine’s bundled software, it is desirable to be able to incorporate these analyses into high-throughput pipelines and integrate them with other data types, as well as leverage the wealth of analytic and visualization approaches provided by the R statistical computing environment. This manuscript describes the plethy package which is an R/Bioconductor framework for pre-processing and analysis of plethysmography data with emphasis on larger scale longitudinal experiments. The plethy package was designed to facilitate quality control and exploratory data analysis. We provide a demonstration of the features of plethy using a dataset assessing the respiratory effects over time of SARS and Influenza infection in mice. Conclusion: The plethy package provides functionality for users to import, perform quality assessment and exploratory data analysis in a manner that allows interoperability with existing modelling tools. Our package is implemented in R and is freely available as part of the Bioconductor project  
Since experimental techniques are time and cost consuming, in silico protein structure prediction is essential to produce conformations of protein targets. When homologous structures are not available, fragment-based protein structure prediction has become the approach of choice. However, it still has many issues including poor performance when targets’ lengths are above 100 residues, excessive running times and sub-optimal energy functions. Taking advantage of the reliable performance of structural class prediction software, we propose to address some of the limitations of fragment-based methods by integrating structural constraints in their fragment selection process. Using Rosetta, a state-of-the-art fragment-based protein structure prediction package, we evaluated our proposed pipeline on 70 former CASP targets containing up to 150 amino acids. Using either CATH or SCOP-based structural class annotations, enhancement of structure prediction performance is highly significant in terms of both GDT_TS (at least +2.6, p-values < 0.0005) and RMSD (−0.4, p-values < 0.005). Although CATH and SCOP classifications are different, they perform similarly. Moreover, proteins from all structural classes benefit from the proposed methodology. Further analysis also shows that methods relying on class-based fragments produce conformations which are more relevant to user and converge quicker towards the best model as estimated by GDT_TS (up to 10% in average). This substantiates our hypothesis that usage of structurally relevant templates conducts to not only reducing the size of the conformation space to be explored, but also focusing on a more relevant area. Since our methodology produces models the quality of which is up to 7% higher in average than those generated by a standard fragment-based predictor, we believe it should be considered before conducting any fragment-based protein structure prediction. Despite such progress, ab initio prediction remains a challenging task, especially for proteins of average and large sizes. Apart from improving search strategies and energy functions, integration of additional constraints seems a promising route, especially if they can be accurately predicted from sequence alone. 
RNA regulatory elements play a significant role in gene regulation. Riboswitches, a widespread group of regulatory RNAs, are vital components of many bacterial genomes. These regulatory elements generally function by forming a ligand-induced alternative fold that controls access to ribosome binding sites or other regulatory sites in RNA. Riboswitch-mediated mechanisms are ubiquitous across bacterial genomes. A typical class of riboswitch has its own unique structural and biological complexity, making de novo riboswitch identification a formidable task. Traditionally, riboswitches have been identified through comparative genomics based on sequence and structural homology. The limitations of structural-homology-based approaches, coupled with the assumption that there is a great diversity of undiscovered riboswitches, suggests the need for alternative methods for riboswitch identification, possibly based on features intrinsic to their structure. As of yet, no such reliable method has been proposed. We used structural entropy of riboswitch sequences as a measure of their secondary structural dynamics. Entropy values of a diverse set of riboswitches were compared to that of their mutants, their dinucleotide shuffles, and their reverse complement sequences under different stochastic context-free grammar folding models. Significance of our results was evaluated by comparison to other approaches, such as the base-pairing entropy and energy landscapes dynamics. Classifiers based on structural entropy optimized via sequence and structural features were devised as riboswitch identifiers and tested on Bacillus subtilis, Escherichia coli, and Synechococcus elongatus as an exploration of structural entropy based approaches. The unusually long untranslated region of the cotH in Bacillus subtilis, as well as upstream regions of certain genes, such as the sucC genes were associated with significant structural entropy values in genome-wide examinations. Various tests show that there is in fact a relationship between higher structural entropy and the potential for the RNA sequence to have alternative structures, within the limitations of our methodology. This relationship, though modest, is consistent across various tests. Understanding the behavior of structural entropy as a fairly new feature for RNA conformational dynamics, however, may require extensive exploratory investigation both across RNA sequences and folding models.
Metagenomics, the sequencing of DNA collected from an entire microbial community, enables the study of natural microbial consortia in their native habitats. Metagenomics studies produce huge volumes of data, including both the sequences themselves and metadata describing their abundance, assembly, predicted functional characteristics and environmental parameters. The ability to explore these data visually is critically important to meaningful biological interpretation. Current genomics applications cannot effectively integrate sequence data, assembly metadata, and annotation to support both genome and community-level inquiry. Elviz (Environmental Laboratory Visualization) is an interactive web-based tool for the visual exploration of assembled metagenomes and their complex metadata. Elviz allows scientists to navigate metagenome assemblies across multiple dimensions and scales, plotting parameters such as GC content, relative abundance, phylogenetic affiliation and assembled contig length. Furthermore Elviz enables interactive exploration using real-time plot navigation, search, filters, axis selection, and the ability to drill from a whole-community profile down to individual gene annotations. Thus scientists engage in a rapid feedback loop of visual pattern identification, hypothesis generation, and hypothesis testing. Compared to the current alternative of generating a succession of static figures, Elviz can greatly accelerate the speed of metagenome analysis. Elviz can be used to explore both user-submitted datasets and numerous metagenome studies publicly available at the Joint Genome Institute (JGI). Elviz is freely available at  and runs on most current web-browsers. 
Epigenome-wide association scans (EWAS) are an increasingly powerful and widely-used approach to assess the role of epigenetic variation in human complex traits. However, this rapidly emerging field lacks dedicated visualisation tools that can display features specific to epigenetic datasets. Result: We developed coMET, an R package and online tool for visualisation of EWAS results in a genomic region of interest. coMET generates a regional plot of epigenetic-phenotype association results and the estimated DNA methylation correlation between CpG sites (co-methylation), with further options to visualise genomic annotations based on ENCODE data, gene tracks, reference CpG-sites, and user-defined features. The tool can be used to display phenotype association signals and correlation patterns of microarray or sequencing-based DNA methylation data, such as Illumina Infinium 450k, WGBS, or MeDIP-seq, as well as other types of genomic data, such as gene expression profiles. The software is available as a user-friendly online tool from  as an R Bioconductor package. Source code, examples, and full documentation are also available from GitHub. Conclusion: Our new software allows visualisation of EWAS results with functional genomic annotations and with estimation of co-methylation patterns. coMET is available to a wide audience as an online tool and R package, and can be a valuable resource to interpret results in the fast growing field of epigenetics. The software is designed for epigenetic data, but can also be applied to genomic and functional genomic datasets in any species.
Permutation-based gene set tests are standard approaches for testing relationships between collections of related genes and an outcome of interest in high throughput expression analyses. Using M random permutations, one can attain p-values as small as 1/(M+1). When many gene sets are tested, we need smaller p-values, hence larger M, to achieve significance while accounting for the number of simultaneous tests being made. As a result, the number of permutations to be done rises along with the cost per permutation. To reduce this cost, we seek parametric approximations to the permutation distributions for gene set tests. We study two gene set methods based on sums and sums of squared correlations. The statistics we study are among the best performers in the extensive simulation of 261 gene set methods by Ackermann and Strimmer in 2009. Our approach calculates exact relevant moments of these statistics and uses them to fit parametric distributions. The computational cost of our algorithm for the linear case is on the order of doing |G| permutations, where |G| is the number of genes in set G. For the quadratic statistics, the cost is on the order of |G|2 permutations which can still be orders of magnitude faster than plain permutation sampling. We applied the permutation approximation method to three public Parkinson’s Disease expression datasets and discovered enriched gene sets not previously discussed. We found that the moment-based gene set enrichment p-values closely approximate the permutation method p-values at a tiny fraction of their cost. They also gave nearly identical rankings to the gene sets being compared. We have developed a moment based approximation to linear and quadratic gene set test statistics’ permutation distribution. This allows approximate testing to be done orders of magnitude faster than one could do by sampling permutations.We have implemented our method as a publicly available Bioconductor package, npGSEA (www.bioconductor.org). 
We aim to automatically extract species names of bacteria and their locations from webpages. This task is important for exploiting the vast amount of biological knowledge which is expressed in diverse natural language texts and putting this knowledge in databases for easy access by biologists. The task is challenging and the previous results are far below an acceptable level of performance, particularly for extraction of localization relationships. Therefore, we aim to design a new system for such extractions, using the framework of structured machine learning techniques. We design a new model for joint extraction of biomedical entities and the localization relationship. Our model is based on a spatial role labeling (SpRL) model designed for spatial understanding of unrestricted text. We extend SpRL to extract discourse level spatial relations in the biomedical domain and apply it on the BioNLP-ST 2013, BB-shared task. We highlight the main differences between general spatial language understanding and spatial information extraction from the scientific text which is the focus of this work. We exploit the text’s structure and discourse level global features. Our model and the designed features substantially improve on the previous systems, achieving an absolute improvement of approximately 57 percent over F1 measure of the best previous system for this task. Our experimental results indicate that a joint learning model over all entities and relationships in a document outperforms a model which extracts entities and relationships independently. Our global learning model significantly improves the state-of-the-art results on this task and has a high potential to be adopted in other natural language processing (NLP) tasks in the biomedical domain.
Many tree structures are found in nature and organisms. Such trees are believed to be constructed on the basis of certain rules. We have previously developed grammar-based compression methods for ordered and unordered single trees, based on bisection-type tree grammars. Here, these methods find construction rules for one single tree. On the other hand, specified construction rules can be utilized to generate multiple similar trees. Therefore, in this paper, we develop novel methods to discover common rules for the construction of multiple distinct trees, by improving and extending the previous methods using integer programming. We apply our proposed methods to several sets of glycans and RNA secondary structures, which play important roles in cellular systems, and can be regarded as tree structures. The results suggest that our method can be successfully applied to determining the minimum grammar and several common rules among glycans and RNAs. We propose integer programming-based methods MinSEOTGMul and MinSEUTGMul for the determination of the minimum grammars constructing multiple ordered and unordered trees, respectively. The proposed methods can provide clues for the determination of hierarchical structures contained in tree-structured biological data, beyond the extraction of frequent patterns. 
Proteins interact with a variety of other molecules such as nucleic acids, small molecules and other proteins inside the cell. Structure-determination of protein-protein complexes is challenging due to several reasons such as the large molecular weights of these macromolecular complexes, their dynamic nature, difficulty in purification and sample preparation. Computational docking permits an early understanding of the feasibility and mode of protein-protein interactions. However, docking algorithms propose a number of solutions and it is a challenging task to select the native or near native pose(s) from this pool. DockScore is an objective scoring scheme that can be used to rank protein-protein docked poses. It considers several interface parameters, namely, surface area, evolutionary conservation, hydrophobicity, short contacts and spatial clustering at the interface for scoring. We have implemented DockScore in form of a webserver for its use by the scientific community. DockScore webserver can be employed, subsequent to docking, to perform scoring of the docked solutions, starting from multiple poses as inputs. The results, on scores and ranks for all the poses, can be downloaded as a csv file and graphical view of the interface of best ranking poses is possible. The webserver for DockScore is made freely available for the scientific community at:  
The ability to query many independent biological databases using a common ontology-based semantic model would facilitate deeper integration and more effective utilization of these diverse and rapidly growing resources. Despite ongoing work moving toward shared data formats and linked identifiers, significant problems persist in semantic data integration in order to establish shared identity and shared meaning across heterogeneous biomedical data sources. We present five processes for semantic data integration that, when applied collectively, solve seven key problems. These processes include making explicit the differences between biomedical concepts and database records, aggregating sets of identifiers denoting the same biomedical concepts across data sources, and using declaratively represented forward-chaining rules to take information that is variably represented in source databases and integrating it into a consistent biomedical representation. We demonstrate these processes and solutions by presenting KaBOB (the Knowledge Base Of Biomedicine), a knowledge base of semantically integrated data from 18 prominent biomedical databases using common representations grounded in Open Biomedical Ontologies. An instance of KaBOB with data about humans and seven major model organisms can be built using on the order of 500 million RDF triples. All source code for building KaBOB is available under an open-source license. KaBOB is an integrated knowledge base of biomedical data representationally based in prominent, actively maintained Open Biomedical Ontologies, thus enabling queries of the underlying data in terms of biomedical concepts (e.g., genes and gene products, interactions and processes) rather than features of source-specific data schemas or file formats. KaBOB resolves many of the issues that routinely plague biomedical researchers intending to work with data from multiple data sources and provides a platform for ongoing data integration and development and for formal reasoning over a wealth of integrated biomedical data. 
Most cases of idiopathic autism spectrum disorder (ASD) likely result from unknown environmental triggers in genetically susceptible individuals. These triggers may include maternal exposure of a fetus to minute concentrations of pharmaceuticals, such as carbamazepine (CBZ), venlafaxine (VNX) and fluoxetine (FLX). Unmetabolized pharmaceuticals reach drinking water through a variety of routes, including ineffectively treated sewage. Previous studies in our laboratory examined the extent to which gene sets were enriched in minnow brains treated with pharmaceuticals. Here, we tested the hypothesis that genes in fish brains and human cell cultures, significantly enriched by pharmaceuticals, would have distinct characteristics in an ASD-associated protein interaction network. We accomplished this by comparing these groups using 10 network indices. A network of 7212 proteins and 33,461 interactions was generated. We found that network characteristics for enriched gene sets for particular pharmaceuticals were distinct from each other, and were different from non-enriched ASD gene sets. In particular, genes in fish brains, enriched by CBZ and VNX 1) had higher network importance than that in the overall network, and those enriched by FLX, and 2) were distinct from FLX and non-enriched ASD genes in multivariate network space. Similarly, genes in human cell cultures enriched by pharmaceutical mixtures (at environmental concentrations) and valproate (at clinical dosages) had similar network signatures, and had greater network importance than genes in the overall ASD network. The results indicate that important gene sets in the ASD network are particularly susceptible to perturbation by pharmaceuticals at environmental concentrations.
Short-read aligners have recently gained a lot of speed by exploiting the massive parallelism of GPU. An uprising alterative to GPU is Intel MIC; supercomputers like Tianhe-2, currently top of TOP500, is built with 48,000 MIC boards to offer ~55 PFLOPS. The CPU-like architecture of MIC allows CPU-based software to be parallelized easily; however, the performance is often inferior to GPU counterparts as an MIC card contains only ~60 cores (while a GPU card typically has over a thousand cores). To better utilize MIC-enabled computers for NGS data analysis, we developed a new short-read aligner MICA that is optimized in view of MIC's limitation and the extra parallelism inside each MIC core. By utilizing the 512-bit vector units in the MIC and implementing a new seeding strategy, experiments on aligning 150 bp paired-end reads show that MICA using one MIC card is 4.9 times faster than BWA-MEM (using 6 cores of a top-end CPU), and slightly faster than SOAP3-dp (using a GPU). Furthermore, MICA's simplicity allows very efficient scale-up when multiple MIC cards are used in a node (3 cards give a 14.1-fold speedup over BWA-MEM). Summary: MICA can be readily used by MIC-enabled supercomputers for production purpose. We have tested MICA on Tianhe-2 with 90 WGS samples (17.47 Tera-bases), which can be aligned in an hour using 400 nodes. MICA has impressive performance even though MIC is only in its initial stage of development. Availability and implementation: MICA's source code is freely available at -aligner under GPL v3. Supplementary information: Supplementary information is available as "Additional File 1". Datasets are available at www.bio8.cs.hku.hk/dataset/mica.
Genome assemblers to date have predominantly targeted haploid reference reconstruction from homozygous data. When applied to diploid genome assembly, these assemblers perform poorly, owing to the violation of assumptions during both the contigging and scaffolding phases. Effective tools to overcome these problems are in growing demand. Increasing parameter stringency during contigging is an effective solution to obtaining haplotype-specific contigs; however, effective algorithms for scaffolding such contigs are lacking. Methods: We present a stand-alone scaffolding algorithm, ScaffoldScaffolder, designed specifically for scaffolding diploid genomes. The algorithm identifies homologous sequences as found in "bubble" structures in scaffold graphs. Machine learning classification is used to then classify sequences in partial bubbles as homologous or non-homologous sequences prior to reconstructing haplotype-specific scaffolds. We define four new metrics for assessing diploid scaffolding accuracy: contig sequencing depth, contig homogeneity, phase group homogeneity, and heterogeneity between phase groups. We demonstrate the viability of using bubbles to identify heterozygous homologous contigs, which we term homolotigs. We show that machine learning classification trained on these homolotig pairs can be used effectively for identifying homologous sequences elsewhere in the data with high precision (assuming error-free reads). Conclusion: More work is required to comparatively analyze this approach on real data with various parameters and classifiers against other diploid genome assembly methods. However, the initial results of ScaffoldScaffolder supply validity to the idea of employing machine learning in the difficult task of diploid genome assembly. Software is available at 
Pairwise relationships extracted from biomedical literature are insufficient in formulating biomolecular interactions. Extraction of complex relations (namely, biomedical events) has become the main focus of the text-mining community. However, there are two critical issues that are seldom dealt with by existing systems. First, an annotated corpus for training a prediction model is highly imbalanced. Second, supervised models trained on only a single annotated corpus can limit system performance. Fortunately, there is a large pool of unlabeled data containing much of the domain background that one can exploit. In this study, we develop a new semi-supervised learning method to address the issues outlined above. The proposed algorithm efficiently exploits the unlabeled data to leverage system performance. We furthermore extend our algorithm to a two-phase learning framework. The first phase balances the training data for initial model induction. The second phase incorporates domain knowledge into the event extraction model. The effectiveness of our method is evaluated on the Genia event extraction corpus and a PubMed document pool. Our method can identify a small subset of the majority class, which is sufficient for building a well-generalized prediction model. It outperforms the traditional self-training algorithm in terms of f-measure. Our model, based on the training data and the unlabeled data pool, achieves comparable performance to the state-of-the-art systems that are trained on a larger annotated set consisting of training and evaluation data.
Intracranial volume (ICV) is an important normalization measure used in morphometric analyses to correct for head size in studies of Alzheimer Disease (AD). Inaccurate ICV estimation could introduce bias in the outcome. The current study provides a decision aid in defining protocols for ICV estimation in patients with Alzheimer disease in terms of sampling frequencies that can be optimally used on the volumetric MRI data, and the type of software most suitable for use in estimating the ICV measure. Methods: Two groups of 22 subjects are considered, including adult controls (AC) and patients with Alzheimer Disease (AD). Reference measurements were calculated for each subject by manually tracing intracranial cavity by the means of visual inspection. The reliability of reference measurements were assured through intra- and inter- variation analyses. Three publicly well-known software packages (Freesurfer, FSL, and SPM) were examined in their ability to automatically estimate ICV across the groups. Analysis of the results supported the significant effect of estimation method, gender, cognitive condition of the subject and the interaction among method and cognitive condition factors in the measured ICV. Results on sub-sampling studies with a 95% confidence showed that in order to keep the accuracy of the interleaved slice sampling protocol above 99%, the sampling period cannot exceed 20 millimeters for AC and 15 millimeters for AD. Freesurfer showed promising estimates for both adult groups. However SPM showed more consistency in its ICV estimation over the different phases of the study. This study emphasized the importance in selecting the appropriate protocol, the choice of the sampling period in the manual estimation of ICV and selection of suitable software for the automated estimation of ICV. The current study serves as an initial framework for establishing an appropriate protocol in both manual and automatic ICV estimations with different subject populations.
In recent years, with advances in techniques for protein structure analysis, the knowledge about protein structure and function has been published in a vast number of articles. A method to search for specific publications from such a large pool of articles is needed. In this paper, we propose a method to search for related articles on protein structure analysis by using an article itself as a query. Each article is represented as a set of concepts in the proposed method. Then, by using similarities among concepts formulated from databases such as Gene Ontology, similarities between articles are evaluated. In this framework, the desired search results vary depending on the user's search intention because a variety of information is included in a single article. Therefore, the proposed method provides not only one input article (primary article) but also additional articles related to it as an input query to determine the search intention of the user, based on the relationship between two query articles. In other words, based on the concepts contained in the input article and additional articles, we actualize a relevant literature search that considers user intention by varying the degree of attention given to each concept and modifying the concept hierarchy graph. We performed an experiment to retrieve relevant papers from articles on protein structure analysis registered in the Protein Data Bank by using three query datasets. The experimental results yielded search results with better accuracy than when user intention was not considered, confirming the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry is a popular technique for high-throughput protein, lipid, and metabolite comparative analysis. Such statistical comparison of millions of data points requires the generation of an inter-run correspondence. Though many techniques for generating this correspondence exist, few if any, address certain well-known run-to-run LC-MS behaviors such as elution order swaps, unbounded retention time swaps, missing data, and significant differences in abundance. Moreover, not all extant correspondence methods leverage the rich discriminating information offered by isotope envelope extraction informed by isotope trace extraction. To date, no attempt has been made to create a formal generalization of extant algorithms for these problems. By enumerating extant objective functions for these problems, we elucidate discrepancies between known LC-MS data behavior and extant approaches. We propose novel objective functions that more closely model known LC-MS behavior. Through instantiating the proposed objective functions in the form of novel algorithms, practitioners can more accurately capture the known behavior of isotope traces, isotopic envelopes, and replicate LC-MS data, ultimately providing for improved quantitative accuracy.
The reconstruction of gene regulatory network from time course microarray data can help us comprehensively understand the biological system and discover the pathogenesis of cancer and other diseases. But how to correctly and efficiently decifer the gene regulatory network from high-throughput gene expression data is a big challenge due to the relatively small amount of observations and curse of dimensionality. Computational biologists have developed many statistical inference and machine learning algorithms to analyze the microarray data. In the previous studies, the correctness of an inferred regulatory network is manually checked through comparing with public database or an existing model. In this work, we present a novel procedure to automatically infer and verify gene regulatory networks from time series expression data. The dynamic Bayesian network, a statistical inference algorithm, is at first implemented to infer an optimal network from time series microarray data of S. cerevisiae, then, a weighted symbolic model checker is applied to automatically verify or falsify the inferred network through checking some desired temporal logic formulas abstracted from experiments or public database. Our studies show that the marriage of statistical inference algorithm with model checking technique provides a more efficient way to automatically infer and verify the gene regulatory network from time series expression data than previous studies.
The comparison of analyte mass spectrometry precursor (MS1) signal is central to many proteomic (and other -omic) workflows. Standard vocabularies for mass spectrometry exist and provide good coverage for most experimental applications yet are insufficient for concise and unambiguous description of data concepts spanning the range of signal provenance from a molecular perspective (e.g. from charged peptides down to fine isotopes). Without a standard unambiguous nomenclature, literature searches, algorithm reproducibility and algorithm evaluation for MS-omics data processing are nearly impossible. We show how terms from current official ontologies are too vague or ambiguous to explicitly map molecular entities to MS signals and we illustrate the inconsistency and ambiguity of current colloquially used terms. We also propose a set of terms for MS1 signal that uniquely, succinctly and intuitively describe data concepts spanning the range of signal provenance from full molecule downs to fine isotopes. We suggest that additional community discussion of these terms should precede any further standardization efforts. We propose a novel nomenclature that spans the range of the required granularity to describe MS data processing from the perspective of the molecular provenance of the MS signal. The proposed nomenclature provides a chain of succinct and unique terms spanning the signal created by a charged molecule down through each of its constituent subsignals. We suggest that additional community discussion of these terms should precede any further standardization efforts.
The lives of half a million children in the United States are severely affected due to the alterations in their functional and mental abilities which epilepsy causes. This study aims to introduce a novel decision support system for the diagnosis of pediatric epilepsy based on scalp EEG data in a clinical environment. Methods: A new time varying approach for constructing functional connectivity networks (FCNs) of 18 subjects (7 subjects from pediatric control (PC) group and 11 subjects from pediatric epilepsy (PE) group) is implemented by moving a window with overlap to split the EEG signals into a total of 445 multi-channel EEG segments (91 for PC and 354 for PE) and finding the hypothetical functional connectivity strengths among EEG channels. FCNs are then mapped into the form of undirected graphs and subjected to extraction of graph theory based features. An unsupervised labeling technique based on Gaussian mixtures model (GMM) is then used to delineate the pediatric epilepsy group from the control group. The study results show the existence of a statistically significant difference (p < 0.0001) between the mean FCNs of PC and PE groups. The system was able to diagnose pediatric epilepsy subjects with the accuracy of 88.8% with 81.8% sensitivity and 100% specificity purely based on exploration of associations among brain cortical regions and without a priori knowledge of diagnosis. The current study created the potential of diagnosing epilepsy without need for long EEG recording session and time-consuming visual inspection as conventionally employed.
G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are important drug targets and a better understanding of their molecular mechanisms would be desirable. The crystallization rate of GPCRs has accelerated in recent years as techniques have become more sophisticated, particularly with respect to Class A GPCRs interacting with G-proteins. These developments have made it possible for a quantitative analysis of GPCR geometrical features and binding-site conformations, including a statistical comparison between Class A GPCRs in active (agonist-bound) and inactive (antagonist-bound) states. Here we implement algorithms for the analysis of interhelical angles, distances, interactions and binding-site volumes in the transmembrane domains of 25 Class A GPCRs (7 active and 18 inactive). Two interhelical angles change in a statistically significant way between average inactive and active states: TM3-TM6 (by -9°) and TM6-TM7 (by +12°). A third interhelical angle: TM5-TM6 shows a trend, changing by -9°. In the transition from inactive to active states, average van der Waals interactions between TM3 and TM7 significantly increase as the average distance between them decreases by >2 Å. Average H-bonding between TM3 and TM6 decreases but is seemingly compensated by an increase in H-bonding between TM5 and TM6. In five Class A GPCRs, crystallized in both active and inactive states, increased H-bonding of agonists to TM6 and TM7, relative to antagonists, is observed. These protein-agonist interactions likely favour a change in the TM6-TM7 angle, which creates a narrowing in the binding pocket of activated receptors and an average ~200 Å3 reduction in volume. In terms of similar conformational changes and agonist binding pattern, Class A GPCRs appear to share a common mechanism of activation, which can be exploited in future drug development. 
With the advances in high throughput technologies, increasing amounts of cancer somatic mutation data are being generated and made available. Only a small number of (driver) mutations occur in driver genes and are responsible for carcinogenesis, while the majority of (passenger) mutations do not influence tumour biology. In this study, SomInaClust is introduced, a method that accurately identifies driver genes based on their mutation pattern across tumour samples and then classifies them into oncogenes or tumour suppressor genes respectively. SomInaClust starts from the observation that oncogenes mainly contain mutations that, due to positive selection, cluster at similar positions in a gene across patient samples, whereas tumour suppressor genes contain a high number of protein-truncating mutations throughout the entire gene length. The method was shown to prioritize driver genes in 9 different solid cancers. Furthermore it was found to be complementary to existing similar-purpose methods with the additional advantages that it has a higher sensitivity, also for rare mutations (occurring in less than 1% of all samples), and it accurately classifies candidate driver genes in putative oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes. Pathway enrichment analysis showed that the identified genes belong to known cancer signalling pathways, and that the distinction between oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes is biologically relevant. SomInaClust was shown to detect candidate driver genes based on somatic mutation patterns of inactivation and clustering and to distinguish oncogenes from tumour suppressor genes. The method could be used for the identification of new cancer genes or to filter mutation data for further data-integration purposes. 
High throughput sequencing technologies are able to identify the whole genomic variation of an individual. Gene-targeted and whole-exome experiments are mainly focused on coding sequence variants related to a single or multiple nucleotides. The analysis of the biological significance of this multitude of genomic variant is challenging and computational demanding. We present PaPI, a new machine-learning approach to classify and score human coding variants by estimating the probability to damage their protein-related function. The novelty of this approach consists in using pseudo amino acid composition through which wild and mutated protein sequences are represented in a discrete model. A machine learning classifier has been trained on a set of known deleterious and benign coding variants with the aim to score unobserved variants by taking into account hidden sequence patterns in human genome potentially leading to diseases. We show how the combination of amphiphilic pseudo amino acid composition, evolutionary conservation and homologous proteins based methods outperforms several prediction algorithms and it is also able to score complex variants such as deletions, insertions and indels. This paper describes a machine-learning approach to predict the deleteriousness of human coding variants. A freely available web application () has been developed with the presented method, able to score up to thousands variants in a single run. 
Comparative proteomics in bacteria are often hampered by the differential nature of dataset quality and/or inherent biological deviations. Although common practice compensates by reproducing and normalizing datasets from a single sample, the degree of certainty is limited in comparison of multiple dataset. To surmount these limitations, we introduce a two-step assessment criterion using: (1) the relative number of total spectra (RTS) to determine if two LC-MS/MS datasets are comparable and (2) nine glycolytic enzymes as internal standards for a more accurate calculation of relative amount of proteins. Lactococcus lactis HR279 and JHK24 strains expressing high or low levels (respectively) of green fluorescent protein (GFP) were used for the model system. GFP abundance was determined by spectral counting and direct fluorescence measurements. Statistical analysis determined relative GFP quantity obtained from our approach matched values obtained from fluorescence measurements. L. lactis HR279 and JHK24 demonstrates two datasets with an RTS value less than 1.4 accurately reflects relative differences in GFP levels between high and low expression strains. Without prior consideration of RTS and the use of internal standards, the relative increase in GFP calculated by spectral counting method was 3.92 ± 1.14 fold, which is not correlated with the value determined by the direct fluorescence measurement (2.86 ± 0.42 fold) with the p = 0.024. In contrast, 2.88 ± 0.92 fold was obtained by our approach showing a statistically insignificant difference (p = 0.95). Our two-step assessment demonstrates a useful approach to: (1) validate the comparability of two mass spectrometric datasets and (2) accurately calculate the relative amount of proteins between proteomic datasets. 
This paper considers the problem of estimation and variable selection for large high-dimensional data (high number of predictors p and large sample size N, without excluding the possibility that N < p) resulting from an individually matched case-control study. We develop a simple algorithm for the adaptation of the Lasso and related methods to the conditional logistic regression model. Our proposal relies on the simplification of the calculations involved in the likelihood function. Then, the proposed algorithm iteratively solves reweighted Lasso problems using cyclical coordinate descent, computed along a regularization path. This method can handle large problems and deal with sparse features efficiently. We discuss benefits and drawbacks with respect to the existing available implementations. We also illustrate the interest and use of these techniques on a pharmacoepidemiological study of medication use and traffic safety.
Studies on genomic sequences for classification and taxonomic identification have a leading role in the biomedical field and in the analysis of biodiversity. These studies are focusing on the so-called barcode genes, representing a well defined region of the whole genome. Recently, alignment-free techniques are gaining more importance because they are able to overcome the drawbacks of sequence alignment techniques. In this paper a new alignment-free method for DNA sequences clustering and classification is proposed. The method is based on k-mers representation and text mining techniques. Methods: The presented method is based on Probabilistic Topic Modeling, a statistical technique originally proposed for text documents. Probabilistic topic models are able to find in a document corpus the topics (recurrent themes) characterizing classes of documents. This technique, applied on DNA sequences representing the documents, exploits the frequency of fixed-length k-mers and builds a generative model for a training group of sequences. This generative model, obtained through the Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) algorithm, is then used to classify a large set of genomic sequences. Results and conclusions: We performed classification of over 7000 16S DNA barcode sequences taken from Ribosomal Database Project (RDP) repository, training probabilistic topic models. The proposed method is compared to the RDP tool and Support Vector Machine (SVM) classification algorithm in a extensive set of trials using both complete sequences and short sequence snippets (from 400 bp to 25 bp). Our method reaches very similar results to RDP classifier and SVM for complete sequences. The most interesting results are obtained when short sequence snippets are considered. In these conditions the proposed method outperforms RDP and SVM with ultra short sequences and it exhibits a smooth decrease of performance, at every taxonomic level, when the sequence length is decreased.
Molecular docking is a widely-employed method in structure-based drug design. An essential component of molecular docking programs is a scoring function (SF) that can be used to identify the most stable binding pose of a ligand, when bound to a receptor protein, from among a large set of candidate poses. Despite intense efforts in developing conventional SFs, which are either force-field based, knowledge-based, or empirical, their limited docking power (or ability to successfully identify the correct pose) has been a major impediment to cost-effective drug discovery. Therefore, in this work, we explore a range of novel SFs employing different machine-learning (ML) approaches in conjunction with physicochemical and geometrical features characterizing protein-ligand complexes to predict the native or near-native pose of a ligand docked to a receptor protein's binding site. We assess the docking accuracies of these new ML SFs as well as those of conventional SFs in the context of the 2007 PDBbind benchmark dataset on both diverse and homogeneous (protein-family-specific) test sets. Further, we perform a systematic analysis of the performance of the proposed SFs in identifying native poses of ligands that are docked to novel protein targets. Results and conclusion: We find that the best performing ML SF has a success rate of 80% in identifying poses that are within 1 Å root-mean-square deviation from the native poses of 65 different protein families. This is in comparison to a success rate of only 70% achieved by the best conventional SF, ASP, employed in the commercial docking software GOLD. In addition, the proposed ML SFs perform better on novel proteins that they were never trained on before. We also observed steady gains in the performance of these scoring functions as the training set size and number of features were increased by considering more protein-ligand complexes and/or more computationally-generated poses for each complex.
Dynamic gene-regulatory networks are complex since the interaction patterns between their components mean that it is impossible to study parts of the network in separation. This holistic character of gene-regulatory networks poses a real challenge to any type of modelling. Graphical models are a class of models that connect the network with a conditional independence relationships between random variables. By interpreting these random variables as gene activities and the conditional independence relationships as functional non-relatedness, graphical models have been used to describe gene-regulatory networks. Whereas the literature has been focused on static networks, most time-course experiments are designed in order to tease out temporal changes in the underlying network. It is typically reasonable to assume that changes in genomic networks are few, because biological systems tend to be stable.We introduce a new model for estimating slow changes in dynamic gene-regulatory networks, which is suitable for high-dimensional data, e.g. time-course microarray data. Our aim is to estimate a dynamically changing genomic network based on temporal activity measurements of the genes in the network. Our method is based on the penalized likelihood with ℓ1-norm, that penalizes conditional dependencies between genes as well as differences between conditional independence elements across time points. We also present a heuristic search strategy to find optimal tuning parameters. We re-write the penalized maximum likelihood problem into a standard convex optimization problem subject to linear equality constraints. We show that our method performs well in simulation studies. Finally, we apply the proposed model to a time-course T-cell dataset.
Gene function annotations, which are associations between a gene and a term of a controlled vocabulary describing gene functional features, are of paramount importance in modern biology. Datasets of these annotations, such as the ones provided by the Gene Ontology Consortium, are used to design novel biological experiments and interpret their results. Despite their importance, these sources of information have some known issues. They are incomplete, since biological knowledge is far from being definitive and it rapidly evolves, and some erroneous annotations may be present. Since the curation process of novel annotations is a costly procedure, both in economical and time terms, computational tools that can reliably predict likely annotations, and thus quicken the discovery of new gene annotations, are very useful. Methods: We used a set of computational algorithms and weighting schemes to infer novel gene annotations from a set of known ones. We used the latent semantic analysis approach, implementing two popular algorithms (Latent Semantic Indexing and Probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis) and propose a novel method, the Semantic IMproved Latent Semantic Analysis, which adds a clustering step on the set of considered genes. Furthermore, we propose the improvement of these algorithms by weighting the annotations in the input set. We tested our methods and their weighted variants on the Gene Ontology annotation sets of three model organism genes (Bos taurus, Danio rerio and Drosophila melanogaster ). The methods showed their ability in predicting novel gene annotations and the weighting procedures demonstrated to lead to a valuable improvement, although the obtained results vary according to the dimension of the input annotation set and the considered algorithm. Out of the three considered methods, the Semantic IMproved Latent Semantic Analysis is the one that provides better results. In particular, when coupled with a proper weighting policy, it is able to predict a significant number of novel annotations, demonstrating to actually be a helpful tool in supporting scientists in the curation process of gene functional annotations.
Mapping of short sequencing reads is a crucial step in the analysis of RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) data. ContextMap is an RNA-seq mapping algorithm that uses a context-based approach to identify the best alignment for each read and allows parallel mapping against several reference genomes. In this article, we present ContextMap 2, a new and improved version of ContextMap. Its key novel features are: (i) a plug-in structure that allows easily integrating novel short read alignment programs with improved accuracy and runtime; (ii) context-based identification of insertions and deletions (indels); (iii) mapping of reads spanning an arbitrary number of exons and indels. ContextMap 2 using Bowtie, Bowtie 2 or BWA was evaluated on both simulated and real-life data from the recently published RGASP study. We show that ContextMap 2 generally combines similar or higher recall compared to other state-of-the-art approaches with significantly higher precision in read placement and junction and indel prediction. Furthermore, runtime was significantly lower than for the best competing approaches. ContextMap 2 is freely available at  
Understanding channel structures that lead to active sites or traverse the molecule is important in the study of molecular functions such as ion, ligand, and small molecule transport. Efficient methods for extracting, storing, and analyzing protein channels are required to support such studies. Further, there is a need for an integrated framework that supports computation of the channels, interactive exploration of their structure, and detailed visual analysis of their properties. We describe a method for molecular channel extraction based on the alpha complex representation. The method computes geometrically feasible channels, stores both the volume occupied by the channel and its centerline in a unified representation, and reports significant channels. The representation also supports efficient computation of channel profiles that help understand channel properties. We describe methods for effective visualization of the channels and their profiles. These methods and the visual analysis framework are implemented in a software tool, ChExVis. We apply the method on a number of known channel containing proteins to extract pore features. Results from these experiments on several proteins show that ChExVis performance is comparable to, and in some cases, better than existing channel extraction techniques. Using several case studies, we demonstrate how ChExVis can be used to study channels, extract their properties and gain insights into molecular function. Conclusion: ChExVis supports the visual exploration of multiple channels together with their geometric and physico-chemical properties thereby enabling the understanding of the basic biology of transport through protein channels. The ChExVis web-server is freely available at  The web-server is supported on all modern browsers with latest Java plug-in. 
Sterol glycosyltransferases (SGTs) are ubiquitous but one of the most diverse group of enzymes of glycosyltransferases family. Members of this family modulate physical and chemical properties of secondary plant products important for various physiological processes. The role of SGTs has been demonstrated in the biosynthesis of pharmaceutically important molecules of medicinal plants like Withania somnifera. Analysis suggested conserved behaviour and high similarity in active sites of WsSGTs with other plant GTs. Substrate specificity of WsSGTs were analysed through docking performance of WsSGTs with different substrates (sterols and withanolides). Best docking results of WsSGTL1 in the form of stable enzyme-substrate complex having lowest binding energies were obtained with brassicasterol, transandrosteron and WsSGTL4 with solasodine, stigmasterol and 24-methylene cholesterol. Conclusion: This study reveals topological characters and conserved nature of two SGTs from W. somnifera (WsSGTs) i.e. WsSGTL1 and WsSGTL4. However, besides being ubiquitous in nature and with broad substrate specificity, difference between WsSGTL1 and WsSGTL4 is briefly described by difference in stability (binding energy) of enzyme-substrate complexes through comparative docking. 
Unsupervised analyses such as clustering are the essential tools required to interpret time-series expression data from microarrays. Several clustering algorithms have been developed to analyze gene expression data. Early methods such as k-means, hierarchical clustering, and self-organizing maps are popular for their simplicity. However, because of noise and uncertainty of measurement, these common algorithms have low accuracy. Moreover, because gene expression is a temporal process, the relationship between successive time points should be considered in the analyses. In addition, biological processes are generally continuous; therefore, the datasets collected from time series experiments are often found to have an insufficient number of data points and, as a result, compensation for missing data can also be an issue. An affinity propagation-based clustering algorithm for time-series gene expression data is proposed. The algorithm explores the relationship between genes using a sliding-window mechanism to extract a large number of features. In addition, the time-course datasets are resampled with spline interpolation to predict the unobserved values. Finally, a consensus process is applied to enhance the robustness of the method. Some real gene expression datasets were analyzed to demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of the algorithm. Conclusion: The proposed algorithm has benefitted from the use of cubic B-splines interpolation, sliding-window, affinity propagation, gene relativity graph, and a consensus process, and, as a result, provides both appropriate and effective clustering of time-series gene expression data. The proposed method was tested with gene expression data from the Yeast galactose dataset, the Yeast cell-cycle dataset (Y5), and the Yeast sporulation dataset, and the results illustrated the relationships between the expressed genes, which may give some insights into the biological processes involved.
Untargeted metabolomics generates a huge amount of data. Software packages for automated data processing are crucial to successfully process these data. A variety of such software packages exist, but the outcome of data processing strongly depends on algorithm parameter settings. If they are not carefully chosen, suboptimal parameter settings can easily lead to biased results. Therefore, parameter settings also require optimization. Several parameter optimization approaches have already been proposed, but a software package for parameter optimization which is free of intricate experimental labeling steps, fast and widely applicable is still missing. We implemented the software package IPO (‘Isotopologue Parameter Optimization’) which is fast and free of labeling steps, and applicable to data from different kinds of samples and data from different methods of liquid chromatography - high resolution mass spectrometry and data from different instruments.IPO optimizes XCMS peak picking parameters by using natural, stable 13C isotopic peaks to calculate a peak picking score. Retention time correction is optimized by minimizing relative retention time differences within peak groups. Grouping parameters are optimized by maximizing the number of peak groups that show one peak from each injection of a pooled sample. The different parameter settings are achieved by design of experiments, and the resulting scores are evaluated using response surface models. IPO was tested on three different data sets, each consisting of a training set and test set. IPO resulted in an increase of reliable groups (146% - 361%), a decrease of non-reliable groups (3% - 8%) and a decrease of the retention time deviation to one third. IPO was successfully applied to data derived from liquid chromatography coupled to high resolution mass spectrometry from three studies with different sample types and different chromatographic methods and devices. We were also able to show the potential of IPO to increase the reliability of metabolomics data.The source code is implemented in R, tested on Linux and Windows and it is freely available for download at  The training sets and test sets can be downloaded from  
Point mutations can have a strong impact on protein stability. A change in stability may subsequently lead to dysfunction and finally cause diseases. Moreover, protein engineering approaches aim to deliberately modify protein properties, where stability is a major constraint. In order to support basic research and protein design tasks, several computational tools for predicting the change in stability upon mutations have been developed. Comparative studies have shown the usefulness but also limitations of such programs. We aim to contribute a novel method for predicting changes in stability upon point mutation in proteins called MAESTRO. MAESTRO is structure based and distinguishes itself from similar approaches in the following points: (i) MAESTRO implements a multi-agent machine learning system. (ii) It also provides predicted free energy change (ΔΔG) values and a corresponding prediction confidence estimation. (iii) It provides high throughput scanning for multi-point mutations where sites and types of mutation can be comprehensively controlled. (iv) Finally, the software provides a specific mode for the prediction of stabilizing disulfide bonds. The predictive power of MAESTRO for single point mutations and stabilizing disulfide bonds is comparable to similar methods. MAESTRO is a versatile tool in the field of stability change prediction upon point mutations. Executables for the Linux and Windows operating systems are freely available to non-commercial users from  
We recently identified two robust ovarian cancer subtypes, defined by the expression of genes involved in angiogenesis, with significant differences in clinical outcome. To identify potential regulatory mechanisms that distinguish the subtypes we applied PANDA, a method that uses an integrative approach to model information flow in gene regulatory networks. We find distinct differences between networks that are active in the angiogenic and non-angiogenic subtypes, largely defined by a set of key transcription factors that, although previously reported to play a role in angiogenesis, are not strongly differentially-expressed between the subtypes. Our network analysis indicates that these factors are involved in the activation (or repression) of different genes in the two subtypes, resulting in differential expression of their network targets. Mechanisms mediating differences between subtypes include a previously unrecognized pro-angiogenic role for increased genome-wide DNA methylation and complex patterns of combinatorial regulation. The models we develop require a shift in our interpretation of the driving factors in biological networks away from the genes themselves and toward their interactions. The observed regulatory changes between subtypes suggest therapeutic interventions that may help in the treatment of ovarian cancer. 
Genes encoding transcription factors that constitute gene-regulatory networks and maternal factors accumulating in egg cytoplasm are two classes of essential genes that play crucial roles in developmental processes. Transcription factors control the expression of their downstream target genes by interacting with cis-regulatory elements. Maternal factors initiate embryonic developmental programs by regulating the expression of zygotic genes and various other events during early embryogenesis. This article documents the transcription factors of 77 metazoan species as well as human and mouse maternal factors. We improved the previous method using a statistical approach adding Gene Ontology information to Pfam based identification of transcription factors. This method detects previously un-discovered transcription factors. The novel features of this database are: (1) It includes both transcription factors and maternal factors, although the number of species, in which maternal factors are listed, is limited at the moment. (2) Ontological representation at the cell, tissue, organ, and system levels has been specially designed to facilitate development studies. This is the unique feature in our database and is not available in other transcription factor databases. A user-friendly web interface, REGULATOR (), which can help researchers to efficiently identify, validate, and visualize the data analyzed in this study, are provided. Using this web interface, users can browse, search, and download detailed information on species of interest, genes, transcription factor families, or developmental ontology terms. 
Research in biomedical text categorization has mostly used the bag-of-words representation. Other more sophisticated representations of text based on syntactic, semantic and argumentative properties have been less studied. In this paper, we evaluate the impact of different text representations of biomedical texts as features for reproducing the MeSH annotations of some of the most frequent MeSH headings. In addition to unigrams and bigrams, these features include noun phrases, citation meta-data, citation structure, and semantic annotation of the citations. Traditional features like unigrams and bigrams exhibit strong performance compared to other feature sets. Little or no improvement is obtained when using meta-data or citation structure. Noun phrases are too sparse and thus have lower performance compared to more traditional features. Conceptual annotation of the texts by MetaMap shows similar performance compared to unigrams, but adding concepts from the UMLS taxonomy does not improve the performance of using only mapped concepts. The combination of all the features performs largely better than any individual feature set considered. In addition, this combination improves the performance of a state-of-the-art MeSH indexer. Concerning the machine learning algorithms, we find that those that are more resilient to class imbalance largely obtain better performance. We conclude that even though traditional features such as unigrams and bigrams have strong performance compared to other features, it is possible to combine them to effectively improve the performance of the bag-of-words representation. We have also found that the combination of the learning algorithm and feature sets has an influence in the overall performance of the system. Moreover, using learning algorithms resilient to class imbalance largely improves performance. However, when using a large set of features, consideration needs to be taken with algorithms due to the risk of over-fitting. Specific combinations of learning algorithms and features for individual MeSH headings could further increase the performance of an indexing system. 
Recent depression research has revealed a growing awareness of how to best classify depression into depressive subtypes. Appropriately subtyping depression can lead to identification of subtypes that are more responsive to current pharmacological treatment and aid in separating out depressed patients in which current antidepressants are not particularly effective.Differential co-expression analysis (DCEA) and differential regulation analysis (DRA) were applied to compare the transcriptomic profiles of peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with two depressive subtypes: major depressive disorder (MDD) and subsyndromal symptomatic depression (SSD). Six differentially regulated genes (DRGs) (FOSL1, SRF, JUN, TFAP4, SOX9, and HLF) and 16 transcription factor-to-target differentially co-expressed gene links or pairs (TF2target DCLs) appear to be the key differential factors in MDD; in contrast, one DRG (PATZ1) and eight TF2target DCLs appear to be the key differential factors in SSD. There was no overlap between the MDD target genes and SSD target genes. Venlafaxine (Efexor™, Effexor™) appears to have a significant effect on the gene expression profile of MDD patients but no significant effect on the gene expression profile of SSD patients. Conclusion: DCEA and DRA revealed no apparent similarities between the differential regulatory processes underlying MDD and SSD. This bioinformatic analysis may provide novel insights that can support future antidepressant R&D efforts. 
Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) acts as a key technique for peptide identification. The MS/MS-based peptide identification approaches can be categorized into two families, namely, de novo and database search. Both of the two types of approaches can benefit from an accurate prediction of theoretical spectrum. A theoretical spectrum consists of m/z and intensity of possibly occurring ions, which are estimated via simulating the spectrum generating process. Extensive researches have been conducted for theoretical spectrum prediction; however, the prediction methods suffer from low prediciton accuracy due to oversimplifications in the spectrum simulation process. In the study, we present an open-source software package, called OpenMS-Simulator, to predict theoretical spectrum for a given peptide sequence. Based on the mobile-proton hypothesis for peptide fragmentation, OpenMS-Simulator trained a closed-form model for the intensity ratio of adjacent y ions, from which the whole theoretical spectrum can be constructed. On a collection of representative spectra datasets with annotated peptide sequences, experimental results suggest that OpenMS-Simulator can predict theoretical spectra with considerable accuracy. The study also presents an application of OpenMS-Simulator: the similarity between theoretical spectra and query spectra can be used to re-rank the peptide sequence reported by SEQUEST/X!Tandem. OpenMS-Simulator implements a novel model to predict theoretical spectrum for a given peptide sequence. Compared with existing theoretical spectrum prediction tools, say MassAnalyzer and MSSimulator, our method not only simplifies the computation process, but also improves the prediction accuracy.Currently, OpenMS-Simulator supports the prediction of CID and HCD spectrum for peptides with double charges. The extension to cover more fragmentation models and support multiple-charged peptides remains as one of the future works. 
Comparing and aligning genomes is a key step in analyzing closely related genomes. Despite the development of many genome aligners in the last 15 years, the problem is not yet fully resolved, even when aligning closely related bacterial genomes of the same species. In addition, no procedures are available to assess the quality of genome alignments or to compare genome aligners. We designed an original method for pairwise genome alignment, named YOC, which employs a highly sensitive similarity detection method together with a recent collinear chaining strategy that allows overlaps. YOC improves the reliability of collinear genome alignments, while preserving or even improving sensitivity. We also propose an original qualitative evaluation criterion for measuring the relevance of genome alignments. We used this criterion to compare and benchmark YOC with five recent genome aligners on large bacterial genome datasets, and showed it is suitable for identifying the specificities and the potential flaws of their underlying strategies. The YOC prototype is available at  It has several advantages over existing genome aligners: (1) it is based on a simplified two phase alignment strategy, (2) it is easy to parameterize, (3) it produces reliable genome alignments, which are easier to analyze and to use. 
Minimum dominating sets (MDSet) of protein interaction networks allow the control of underlying protein interaction networks through their topological placement. While essential proteins are enriched in MDSets, we hypothesize that the statistical properties of biological functions of essential genes are enhanced when we focus on essential MDSet proteins (e-MDSet). Here, we determined minimum dominating sets of proteins (MDSet) in interaction networks of E. coli, S. cerevisiae and H. sapiens, defined as subsets of proteins whereby each remaining protein can be reached by a single interaction. We compared several topological and functional parameters of essential, MDSet, and essential MDSet (e-MDSet) proteins. In particular, we observed that their topological placement allowed e-MDSet proteins to provide a positive correlation between degree and lethality, connect more protein complexes, and have a stronger impact on network resilience than essential proteins alone. In comparison to essential proteins we further found that interactions between e-MDSet proteins appeared more frequently within complexes, while interactions of e-MDSet proteins between complexes were depleted. Finally, these e-MDSet proteins classified into functional groupings that play a central role in survival and adaptability. The determination of e-MDSet of an organism highlights a set of proteins that enhances the enrichment signals of biological functions of essential proteins. As a consequence, we surmise that e-MDSets may provide a new method of evaluating the core proteins of an organism.
Relation extraction is a fundamental technology in biomedical text mining. Most of the previous studies on relation extraction from biomedical literature have focused on specific or predefined types of relations, which inherently limits the types of the extracted relations. With the aim of fully leveraging the knowledge described in the literature, we address much broader types of semantic relations using a single extraction framework. Our system, which we name PASMED, extracts diverse types of binary relations from biomedical literature using deep syntactic patterns. Our experimental results demonstrate that it achieves a level of recall considerably higher than the state of the art, while maintaining reasonable precision. We have then applied PASMED to the whole MEDLINE corpus and extracted more than 137 million semantic relations. The extracted relations provide a quantitative understanding of what kinds of semantic relations are actually described in MEDLINE and can be ultimately extracted by (possibly type-specific) relation extraction systems. Conclusion: PASMED extracts a large number of relations that have previously been missed by existing text mining systems. The entire collection of the relations extracted from MEDLINE is publicly available in machine-readable form, so that it can serve as a potential knowledge base for high-level text-mining applications. 
A standard procedure in many areas of bioinformatics is to use a single multiple sequence alignment (MSA) as the basis for various types of analysis. However, downstream results may be highly sensitive to the alignment used, and neglecting the uncertainty in the alignment can lead to significant bias in the resulting inference. In recent years, a number of approaches have been developed for probabilistic sampling of alignments, rather than simply generating a single optimum. However, this type of probabilistic information is currently not widely used in the context of downstream inference, since most existing algorithms are set up to make use of a single alignment. In this work we present a framework for representing a set of sampled alignments as a directed acyclic graph (DAG) whose nodes are alignment columns; each path through this DAG then represents a valid alignment. Since the probabilities of individual columns can be estimated from empirical frequencies, this approach enables sample-based estimation of posterior alignment probabilities. Moreover, due to conditional independencies between columns, the graph structure encodes a much larger set of alignments than the original set of sampled MSAs, such that the effective sample size is greatly increased. The alignment DAG provides a natural way to represent a distribution in the space of MSAs, and allows for existing algorithms to be efficiently scaled up to operate on large sets of alignments. As an example, we show how this can be used to compute marginal probabilities for tree topologies, averaging over a very large number of MSAs. This framework can also be used to generate a statistically meaningful summary alignment; example applications show that this summary alignment is consistently more accurate than the majority of the alignment samples, leading to improvements in downstream tree inference.Implementations of the methods described in this article are available at  
Construction and validation of a prognostic model for survival data in the clinical domain is still an active field of research. Nevertheless there is no consensus on how to develop routine prognostic tests based on a combination of RT-qPCR biomarkers and clinical or demographic variables. In particular, the estimation of the model performance requires to properly account for the RT-qPCR experimental design. We present a strategy to build, select, and validate a prognostic model for survival data based on a combination of RT-qPCR biomarkers and clinical or demographic data and we provide an illustration on a real clinical dataset. First, we compare two cross-validation schemes: a classical outcome-stratified cross-validation scheme and an alternative one that accounts for the RT-qPCR plate design, especially when samples are processed by batches. The latter is intended to limit the performance discrepancies, also called the validation surprise, between the training and the test sets. Second, strategies for model building (covariate selection, functional relationship modeling, and statistical model) as well as performance indicators estimation are presented. Since in practice several prognostic models can exhibit similar performances, complementary criteria for model selection are discussed: the stability of the selected variables, the model optimism, and the impact of the omitted variables on the model performance. Conclusion: On the training dataset, appropriate resampling methods are expected to prevent from any upward biases due to unaccounted technical and biological variability that may arise from the experimental and intrinsic design of the RT-qPCR assay. Moreover, the stability of the selected variables, the model optimism, and the impact of the omitted variables on the model performances are pivotal indicators to select the optimal model to be validated on the test dataset. 
Utilizing kinetic models of biological systems commonly require computational approaches to estimate parameters, posing a variety of challenges due to their highly non-linear and dynamic nature, which is further complicated by the issue of non-identifiability. We propose a novel parameter estimation framework by combining approaches for solving identifiability with a recently introduced filtering technique that can uniquely estimate parameters where conventional methods fail. This framework first conducts a thorough analysis to identify and classify the non-identifiable parameters and provides a guideline for solving them. If no feasible solution can be found, the framework instead initializes the filtering technique with informed prior to yield a unique solution. This framework has been applied to uniquely estimate parameter values for the sucrose accumulation model in sugarcane culm tissue and a gene regulatory network. In the first experiment the results show the progression of improvement in reliable and unique parameter estimation through the use of each tool to reduce and remove non-identifiability. The latter experiment illustrates the common situation where no further measurement data is available to solve the non-identifiability. These results show the successful application of the informed prior as well as the ease with which parallel data sources may be utilized without increasing the model complexity. Conclusion: The proposed unified framework is distinct from other approaches by providing a robust and complete solution which yields reliable and unique parameter estimation even in the face of non-identifiability. 
Recent techniques for tagging and visualizing single molecules in fixed or living organisms and cell lines have been revolutionizing our understanding of the spatial and temporal dynamics of fundamental biological processes. However, fluorescence microscopy images are often noisy, and it can be difficult to distinguish a fluorescently labeled single molecule from background speckle. We present a computational pipeline to distinguish the true signal of fluorescently labeled molecules from background fluorescence and noise. We test our technique using the challenging case of wide-field, epifluorescence microscope image stacks from single molecule fluorescence in situ experiments on nematode embryos where there can be substantial out-of-focus light and structured noise. The software recognizes and classifies individual mRNA spots by measuring several features of local intensity maxima and classifying them with a supervised random forest classifier. A key innovation of this software is that, by estimating the probability that each local maximum is a true spot in a statistically principled way, it makes it possible to estimate the error introduced by image classification. This can be used to assess the quality of the data and to estimate a confidence interval for the molecule count estimate, all of which are important for quantitative interpretations of the results of single-molecule experiments. The software classifies spots in these images well, with >95% AUROC on realistic artificial data and outperforms other commonly used techniques on challenging real data. Its interval estimates provide a unique measure of the quality of an image and confidence in the classification. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signalling plays a major role in biological processes, including cell proliferation, differentiation and survival. Since the over-expression of EGFR causes human cancers, EGFR is an attractive drug target. A tumor suppressor endogenous protein, MIG-6, is known to suppress EGFR over-expression by binding to the C-lobe of EGFR kinase. Thus, this C-lobe of the EGFR kinase is a potential new target for EGFR kinase activity inhibition. In this study, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and binding free energy calculations were used to investigate the protein-peptide interactions between EGFR kinase and a 27-residue peptide derived from MIG-6_s1 segment (residues 336–362). These 27 residues of MIG-6_s1 were modeled from the published MIG-6 X-ray structure. The binding dynamics were detailed by applying the molecular mechanics Poisson-Boltzmann surface area (MM-PBSA) method to predict the binding free energy. Both van der Waals interactions and non-polar solvation were favorable driving forces for binding process. Six residues of EGFR kinase and eight residues of MIG-6_s1 residues were shown to be responsible for interface binding in which we investigated per residue free energy decomposition and the results from the computational alanine scanning approach. These residues also had higher hydrogen bond occupancies than other residues at the binding interface. The results from the aforementioned calculations reasonably agreed with the previous experimental mutagenesis studies. Molecular dynamics simulations were used to investigate the interactions of MIG-6_s1 to EGFR kinase domain. Our study provides an insight into such interactions that is useful in guiding the design of novel anticancer therapeutics. The information on our modelled peptide interface with EGFR kinase could be a possible candidate for an EGFR dimerization inhibitor.
Reducing the effects of sequencing errors and PCR artifacts has emerged as an essential component in amplicon-based metagenomic studies. Denoising algorithms have been designed that can reduce error rates in mock community data, but they change the sequence data in a manner that can be inconsistent with the process of removing errors in studies of real communities. In addition, they are limited by the size of the dataset and the sequencing technology used. FlowClus uses a systematic approach to filter and denoise reads efficiently. When denoising real datasets, FlowClus provides feedback about the process that can be used as the basis to adjust the parameters of the algorithm to suit the particular dataset. When used to analyze a mock community dataset, FlowClus produced a lower error rate compared to other denoising algorithms, while retaining significantly more sequence information. Among its other attributes, FlowClus can analyze longer reads being generated from all stages of 454 sequencing technology, as well as from Ion Torrent. It has processed a large dataset of 2.2 million GS-FLX Titanium reads in twelve hours; using its more efficient (but less precise) trie analysis option, this time was further reduced, to seven minutes. Many of the amplicon-based metagenomics datasets generated over the last several years have been processed through a denoising pipeline that likely caused deleterious effects on the raw data. By using FlowClus, one can avoid such negative outcomes while maintaining control over the filtering and denoising processes. Because of its efficiency, FlowClus can be used to re-analyze multiple large datasets together, thereby leading to more standardized conclusions. FlowClus is freely available on GitHub (jsh58/FlowClus); it is written in C and supported on Linux. 
Emergence of multiple drug resistant strains of M. tuberculosis (MDR-TB) threatens to derail global efforts aimed at reigning in the pathogen. Co-infections of M. tuberculosis with HIV are difficult to treat. To counter these new challenges, it is essential to study the interactions between M. tuberculosis and the host to learn how these bacteria cause disease. We report a systematic flow to predict the host pathogen interactions (HPIs) between M. tuberculosis and Homo sapiens based on sequence motifs. First, protein sequences were used as initial input for identifying the HPIs by ‘interolog’ method. HPIs were further filtered by prediction of domain-domain interactions (DDIs). Functional annotations of protein and publicly available experimental results were applied to filter the remaining HPIs. Using such a strategy, 118 pairs of HPIs were identified, which involve 43 proteins from M. tuberculosis and 48 proteins from Homo sapiens. A biological interaction network between M. tuberculosis and Homo sapiens was then constructed using the predicted inter- and intra-species interactions based on the 118 pairs of HPIs. Finally, a web accessible database named PATH (Protein interactions of M. tuberculosis and Human) was constructed to store these predicted interactions and proteins. This interaction network will facilitate the research on host-pathogen protein-protein interactions, and may throw light on how M. tuberculosis interacts with its host. 
Voids and cavities in the native protein structure determine the pressure unfolding of proteins. In addition, the volume changes due to the interaction of newly exposed atoms with solvent upon protein unfolding also contribute to the pressure unfolding of proteins. Quantitative understanding of these effects is important for predicting and designing proteins with predefined response to changes in hydrostatic pressure using computational approaches. The molecular surface volume is a useful metric that describes contribution of geometrical volume, which includes van der Waals volume and volume of the voids, to the total volume of a protein in solution, thus isolating the effects of hydration for separate calculations. We developed ProteinVolume, a highly robust and easy-to-use tool to compute geometric volumes of proteins. ProteinVolume generates the molecular surface of a protein and uses an innovative flood-fill algorithm to calculate the individual components of the molecular surface volume, van der Waals and intramolecular void volumes. ProteinVolume is user friendly and is available as a web-server or a platform-independent command-line version. ProteinVolume is a highly accurate and fast application to interrogate geometric volumes of proteins. ProteinVolume is a free web server available on  Free-standing platform-independent Java-based ProteinVolume executable is also freely available at this web site. 
Invasive monitoring of brain activity by means of intracerebral electrodes is widely practiced to improve pre-surgical seizure onset zone localization in patients with medically refractory seizures. Stereo-Electroencephalography (SEEG) is mainly used to localize the epileptogenic zone and a precise knowledge of the location of the electrodes is expected to facilitate the recordings interpretation and the planning of resective surgery. However, the localization of intracerebral electrodes on post-implant acquisitions is usually time-consuming (i.e., manual segmentation), it requires advanced 3D visualization tools, and it needs the supervision of trained medical doctors in order to minimize the errors. In this paper we propose an automated segmentation algorithm specifically designed to segment SEEG contacts from a thresholded post-implant Cone-Beam CT volume (0.4 mm, 0.4 mm, 0.8 mm). The algorithm relies on the planned position of target and entry points for each electrode as a first estimation of electrode axis. We implemented the proposed algorithm into DEETO, an open source C++ prototype based on ITK library. We tested our implementation on a cohort of 28 subjects in total. The experimental analysis, carried out over a subset of 12 subjects (35 multilead electrodes; 200 contacts) manually segmented by experts, show that the algorithm: (i) is faster than manual segmentation (i.e., less than 1s/subject versus a few hours) (ii) is reliable, with an error of 0.5 mm ± 0.06 mm, and (iii) it accurately maps SEEG implants to their anatomical regions improving the interpretability of electrophysiological traces for both clinical and research studies. Moreover, using the 28-subject cohort we show here that the algorithm is also robust (error < 0.005 mm) against deep-brain displacements (< 12 mm) of the implanted electrode shaft from those planned before surgery. Our method represents, to the best of our knowledge, the first automatic algorithm for the segmentation of SEEG electrodes. The method can be used to accurately identify the neuroanatomical loci of SEEG electrode contacts by a non-expert in a fast and reliable manner.
Assembling genes from next-generation sequencing data is not only time consuming but computationally difficult, particularly for taxa without a closely related reference genome. Assembling even a draft genome using de novo approaches can take days, even on a powerful computer, and these assemblies typically require data from a variety of genomic libraries. Here we describe software that will alleviate these issues by rapidly assembling genes from distantly related taxa using a single library of paired-end reads: aTRAM, automated Target Restricted Assembly Method. The aTRAM pipeline uses a reference sequence, BLAST, and an iterative approach to target and locally assemble the genes of interest. Our results demonstrate that aTRAM rapidly assembles genes across distantly related taxa. In comparative tests with a closely related taxon, aTRAM assembled the same sequence as reference-based and de novo approaches taking on average < 1 min per gene. As a test case with divergent sequences, we assembled >1,000 genes from six taxa ranging from 25 – 110 million years divergent from the reference taxon. The gene recovery was between 97 – 99% from each taxon. aTRAM can quickly assemble genes across distantly-related taxa, obviating the need for draft genome assembly of all taxa of interest. Because aTRAM uses a targeted approach, loci can be assembled in minutes depending on the size of the target. Our results suggest that this software will be useful in rapidly assembling genes for phylogenomic projects covering a wide taxonomic range, as well as other applications. The software is freely available  
Genes that regulate stem cell function are suspected to exert adverse effects on prognosis in malignancy. However, diverse cancer stem cell signatures are difficult for physicians to interpret and apply clinically. To connect the transcriptome and stem cell biology, with potential clinical applications, we propose a novel computational “gene-to-function, snapshot-to-dynamics, and biology-to-clinic” framework to uncover core functional gene-sets signatures. This framework incorporates three function-centric gene-set analysis strategies: a meta-analysis of both microarray and RNA-seq data, novel dynamic network mechanism (DNM) identification, and a personalized prognostic indicator analysis. This work uses complex disease acute myeloid leukemia (AML) as a research platform. We introduced an adjustable “soft threshold” to a functional gene-set algorithm and found that two different analysis methods identified distinct gene-set signatures from the same samples. We identified a 30-gene cluster that characterizes leukemic stem cell (LSC)-depleted cells and a 25-gene cluster that characterizes LSC-enriched cells in parallel; both mark favorable-prognosis in AML. Genes within each signature significantly share common biological processes and/or molecular functions (empirical p = 6e-5 and 0.03 respectively). The 25-gene signature reflects the abnormal development of stem cells in AML, such as AURKA over-expression. We subsequently determined that the clinical relevance of both signatures is independent of known clinical risk classifications in 214 patients with cytogenetically normal AML. We successfully validated the prognosis of both signatures in two independent cohorts of 91 and 242 patients respectively (log-rank p < 0.0015 and 0.05; empirical p < 0.015 and 0.08). Conclusion: The proposed algorithms and computational framework will harness systems biology research because they efficiently translate gene-sets (rather than single genes) into biological discoveries about AML and other complex diseases. 
The impact of cell-composition effects in analysis of DNA methylation data is now widely appreciated. With the availability of a reference data set consisting of DNA methylation measurements on isolated cell types, it is possible to impute cell proportions and adjust for them, but there is increasing interest in methods that adjust for cell composition effects when reference sets are incomplete or unavailable. In this article we present a theoretical basis for one such method, showing that the total effect of a phenotype on DNA methylation can be decomposed into orthogonal components, one representing the effect of phenotype on proportions of major cell types, the other representing either subtle effects in composition or global effects at focused loci, and that it is possible to separate these two types of effects in a finite data set. We demonstrate this principle empirically on nine DNA methylation data sets, showing that the first few principal components generally contain a majority of the information on cell-type present in the data, but that later principal components nevertheless contain information about a small number of loci that may represent more focused associations. We also present a new method for determining the number of linear terms to interpret as cell-mixture effects and demonstrate robustness to the choice of this parameter. Taken together, our work demonstrates that reference-free algorithms for cell-mixture adjustment can produce biologically valid results, separating cell-mediated epigenetic effects (i.e. apparent effects arising from differences in cell composition) from those that are not cell mediated, and that in general the interpretation of associations evident from DNA methylation should be carefully considered. 
Computational predictions of catalytic function are vital for in-depth understanding of enzymes. Because several novel approaches performing better than the common BLAST tool are rarely applied in research, we hypothesized that there is a large gap between the number of known annotated enzymes and the actual number in the protein universe, which significantly limits our ability to extract additional biologically relevant functional information from the available sequencing data. To reliably expand the enzyme space, we developed DomSign, a highly accurate domain signature–based enzyme functional prediction tool to assign Enzyme Commission (EC) digits. DomSign is a top-down prediction engine that yields results comparable, or superior, to those from many benchmark EC number prediction tools, including BLASTP, when a homolog with an identity >30% is not available in the database. Performance tests showed that DomSign is a highly reliable enzyme EC number annotation tool. After multiple tests, the accuracy is thought to be greater than 90%. Thus, DomSign can be applied to large-scale datasets, with the goal of expanding the enzyme space with high fidelity. Using DomSign, we successfully increased the percentage of EC-tagged enzymes from 12% to 30% in UniProt-TrEMBL. In the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes bacterial database, the percentage of EC-tagged enzymes for each bacterial genome could be increased from 26.0% to 33.2% on average. Metagenomic mining was also efficient, as exemplified by the application of DomSign to the Human Microbiome Project dataset, recovering nearly one million new EC-labeled enzymes. Our results offer preliminarily confirmation of the existence of the hypothesized huge number of “hidden enzymes” in the protein universe, the identification of which could substantially further our understanding of the metabolisms of diverse organisms and also facilitate bioengineering by providing a richer enzyme resource. Furthermore, our results highlight the necessity of using more advanced computational tools than BLAST in protein database annotations to extract additional biologically relevant functional information from the available biological sequences. 
Identifying druggable cavities on a protein surface is a crucial step in structure based drug design. The cavities have to present suitable size and shape, as well as appropriate chemical complementarity with ligands. We present a novel cavity prediction method that analyzes results of virtual screening of specific ligands or fragment libraries by means of Self-Organizing Maps. We demonstrate the method with two thoroughly studied proteins where it successfully identified their active sites (AS) and relevant secondary binding sites (BS). Moreover, known active ligands mapped the AS better than inactive ones. Interestingly, docking a naive fragment library brought even more insight. We then systematically applied the method to the 102 targets from the DUD-E database, where it showed a 90% identification rate of the AS among the first three consensual clusters of the SOM, and in 82% of the cases as the first one. Further analysis by chemical decomposition of the fragments improved BS prediction. Chemical substructures that are representative of the active ligands preferentially mapped in the AS. Conclusion: The new approach provides valuable information both on relevant BSs and on chemical features promoting bioactivity. 
In template-based modeling when using a single template, inter-atomic distances of an unknown protein structure are assumed to be distributed by Gaussian probability density functions, whose center peaks are located at the distances between corresponding atoms in the template structure. The width of the Gaussian distribution, the variability of a spatial restraint, is closely related to the reliability of the restraint information extracted from a template, and it should be accurately estimated for successful template-based protein structure modeling. To predict the variability of the spatial restraints in template-based modeling, we have devised a prediction model, Sigma-RF, by using the random forest (RF) algorithm. The benchmark results on 22 CASP9 targets show that the variability values from Sigma-RF are of higher correlations with the true distance deviation than those from Modeller. We assessed the effect of new sigma values by performing the single-domain homology modeling of 22 CASP9 targets and 24 CASP10 targets. For most of the targets tested, we could obtain more accurate 3D models from the identical alignments by using the Sigma-RF results than by using Modeller ones. We find that the average alignment quality of residues located between and at two aligned residues, quasi-local information, is the most contributing factor, by investigating the importance of input features used in the RF machine learning. This average alignment quality is shown to be more important than the previously identified quantity of a local information: the product of alignment qualities at two aligned residues. 
When studying the genetics of a human trait, we typically have to manage both genome-wide and targeted genotype data. There can be overlap of both people and markers from different genotyping experiments; the overlap can introduce several kinds of problems. Most times the overlapping genotypes are the same, but sometimes they are different. Occasionally, the lab will return genotypes using a different allele labeling scheme (for example 1/2 vs A/C). Sometimes, the genotype for a person/marker index is unreliable or missing. Further, over time some markers are merged and bad samples are re-run under a different sample name. We need a consistent picture of the subset of data we have chosen to work with even though there might possibly be conflicting measurements from multiple data sources. We have developed the dbVOR database, which is designed to hold data efficiently for both genome-wide and targeted experiments. The data are indexed for fast retrieval by person and marker. In addition, we store pedigree and phenotype data for our subjects. The dbVOR database allows us to select subsets of the data by several different criteria and to merge their results into a coherent and consistent whole. Data may be filtered by: family, person, trait value, markers, chromosomes, and chromosome ranges. The results can be presented in columnar, Mega2, or PLINK format. dbVOR serves our needs well. It is freely available from  Documentation for dbVOR can be found at  
Motivation: Based on the next generation genome sequencing technologies, a variety of biological applications are developed, while alignment is the first step once the sequencing reads are obtained. In recent years, many software tools have been developed to efficiently and accurately align short reads to the reference genome. However, there are still many reads that can't be mapped to the reference genome, due to the exceeding of allowable mismatches. Moreover, besides the unmapped reads, the reads with low mapping qualities are also excluded from the downstream analysis, such as variance calling. If we can take advantages of the confident segments of these reads, not only can the alignment rates be improved, but also more information will be provided for the downstream analysis. This paper proposes a method, called RAUR (Re-align the Unmapped Reads), to re-align the reads that can not be mapped by alignment tools. Firstly, it takes advantages of the base quality scores (reported by the sequencer) to figure out the most confident and informative segments of the unmapped reads by controlling the number of possible mismatches in the alignment. Then, combined with an alignment tool, RAUR re-align these segments of the reads. We run RAUR on both simulated data and real data with different read lengths. The results show that many reads which fail to be aligned by the most popular alignment tools (BWA and Bowtie2) can be correctly re-aligned by RAUR, with a similar Precision. Even compared with the BWA-MEM and the local mode of Bowtie2, which perform local alignment for long reads to improve the alignment rate, RAUR also shows advantages on the Alignment rate and Precision in some cases. Therefore, the trimming strategy used in RAUR is useful to improve the Alignment rate of alignment tools for the next-generation genome sequencing. Availability: All source code are available at 
Epigenetic alterations are known to correlate with changes in gene expression among various diseases including cancers. However, quantitative models that accurately predict the up or down regulation of gene expression are currently lacking. Methods: A new machine learning-based method of gene expression prediction is developed in the context of lung cancer. This method uses the Illumina Infinium HumanMethylation450K Beadchip CpG methylation array data from paired lung cancer and adjacent normal tissues in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and histone modification marker CHIP-Seq data from the ENCODE project, to predict the differential expression of RNA-Seq data in TCGA lung cancers. It considers a comprehensive list of 1424 features spanning the four categories of CpG methylation, histone H3 methylation modification, nucleotide composition, and conservation. Various feature selection and classification methods are compared to select the best model over 10-fold cross-validation in the training data set. A best model comprising 67 features is chosen by ReliefF based feature selection and random forest classification method, with AUC = 0.864 from the 10-fold cross-validation of the training set and AUC = 0.836 from the testing set. The selected features cover all four data types, with histone H3 methylation modification (32 features) and CpG methylation (15 features) being most abundant. Among the dropping-off tests of individual data-type based features, removal of CpG methylation feature leads to the most reduction in model performance. In the best model, 19 selected features are from the promoter regions (TSS200 and TSS1500), highest among all locations relative to transcripts. Sequential dropping-off of CpG methylation features relative to different regions on the protein coding transcripts shows that promoter regions contribute most significantly to the accurate prediction of gene expression. By considering a comprehensive list of epigenomic and genomic features, we have constructed an accurate model to predict transcriptomic differential expression, exemplified in lung cancer.
We consider the emerging problem of comparing the similarity between (unlabeled) pedigrees. More specifically, we focus on the simplest pedigrees, namely, the 2-generation pedigrees. We show that the isomorphism testing for two 2-generation pedigrees is GI-hard. If the 2-generation pedigrees are monogamous (i.e., each individual at level-1 can mate with exactly one partner) then the isomorphism testing problem can be solved in polynomial time. We then consider the problem by relaxing it into an NP-complete decomposition problem which can be formulated as the Minimum Common Integer Pair Partition (MCIPP) problem, which we show to be FPT by exploiting a property of the optimal solution. While there is still some difficulty to overcome, this lays down a solid foundation for this research.
Identifying segments in the genome of different individuals that are identical-by-descent (IBD) is a fundamental element of genetics. IBD data is used for numerous applications including demographic inference, heritability estimation, and mapping disease loci. Simultaneous detection of IBD over multiple haplotypes has proven to be computationally difficult. To overcome this, many state of the art methods estimate the probability of IBD between each pair of haplotypes separately. While computationally efficient, these methods fail to leverage the clique structure of IBD resulting in less powerful IBD identification, especially for small IBD segments.We develop a hybrid approach (PIGS), which combines the computational efficiency of pairwise methods with the power of multiway methods. It leverages the IBD graph structure to compute the probability of IBD conditional on all pairwise estimates simultaneously. We show via extensive simulations and analysis of real data that our method produces a substantial increase in the number of identified small IBD segments.
Large-scale cancer genomic projects are providing lots of data on genomic, epigenomic and gene expression aberrations in many cancer types. One key challenge is to detect functional driver pathways and to filter out nonfunctional passenger genes in cancer genomics. Vandin et al. introduced the Maximum Weight Sub-matrix Problem to find driver pathways and showed that it is an NP-hard problem. Methods: To find a better solution and solve the problem more efficiently, we present a network-based method (NBM) to detect overlapping driver pathways automatically. This algorithm can directly find driver pathways or gene sets de novo from somatic mutation data utilizing two combinatorial properties, high coverage and high exclusivity, without any prior information. We firstly construct gene networks based on the approximate exclusivity between each pair of genes using somatic mutation data from many cancer patients. Secondly, we present a new greedy strategy to add or remove genes for obtaining overlapping gene sets with driver mutations according to the properties of high exclusivity and high coverage. To assess the efficiency of the proposed NBM, we apply the method on simulated data and compare results obtained from the NBM, RME, Dendrix and Multi-Dendrix. NBM obtains optimal results in less than nine seconds on a conventional computer and the time complexity is much less than the three other methods. To further verify the performance of NBM, we apply the method to analyze somatic mutation data from five real biological data sets such as the mutation profiles of 90 glioblastoma tumor samples and 163 lung carcinoma samples. NBM detects groups of genes which overlap with known pathways, including P53, RB and RTK/RAS/PI(3)K signaling pathways. New gene sets with p-value less than 1e-3 are found from the somatic mutation data. NBM can detect more biologically relevant gene sets. Results show that NBM outperforms other algorithms for detecting driver pathways or gene sets. Further research will be conducted with the use of novel machine learning techniques.
Systems approaches to studying drug-side-effect (drug-SE) associations are emerging as an active research area for both drug target discovery and drug repositioning. However, a comprehensive drug-SE association knowledge base does not exist. In this study, we present a novel knowledge-driven (KD) approach to effectively extract a large number of drug-SE pairs from published biomedical literature. Data and methods: For the text corpus, we used 21,354,075 MEDLINE records (119,085,682 sentences). First, we used known drug-SE associations derived from FDA drug labels as prior knowledge to automatically find SE-related sentences and abstracts. We then extracted a total of 49,575 drug-SE pairs from MEDLINE sentences and 180,454 pairs from abstracts. On average, the KD approach has achieved a precision of 0.335, a recall of 0.509, and an F1 of 0.392, which is significantly better than a SVM-based machine learning approach (precision: 0.135, recall: 0.900, F1: 0.233) with a 73.0% increase in F1 score. Through integrative analysis, we demonstrate that the higher-level phenotypic drug-SE relationships reflects lower-level genetic, genomic, and chemical drug mechanisms. In addition, we show that the extracted drug-SE pairs can be directly used in drug repositioning. Conclusion: In summary, we automatically constructed a large-scale higher-level drug phenotype relationship knowledge, which can have great potential in computational drug discovery.
Disease genes cause or contribute genetically to the development of the most complex diseases. Drugs are the major approaches to treat the complex disease through interacting with their targets. Thus, drug targets are critical for treatment efficacy. However, the interrelationship between the disease genes and drug targets is not clear. In this study, we comprehensively compared the network properties of disease genes and drug targets for five major disease categories (cancer, cardiovascular disease, immune system disease, metabolic disease, and nervous system disease). We first collected disease genes from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for five disease categories and collected their corresponding drugs based on drugs' Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) classification. Then, we obtained the drug targets for these five different disease categories. We found that, though the intersections between disease genes and drug targets were small, disease genes were significantly enriched in targets compared to their enrichment in human protein-coding genes. We further compared network properties of the proteins encoded by disease genes and drug targets in human protein-protein interaction networks (interactome). The results showed that the drug targets tended to have higher degree, higher betweenness, and lower clustering coefficient in cancer Furthermore, we observed a clear fraction increase of disease proteins or drug targets in the near neighborhood compared with the randomized genes. The study presents the first comprehensive comparison of the disease genes and drug targets in the context of interactome. The results provide some foundational network characteristics for further designing computational strategies to predict novel drug targets and drug repurposing.
Metabolomics is the study of small molecules, called metabolites, of a cell, tissue or organism. It is of particular interest as endogenous metabolites represent the phenotype resulting from gene expression. A major challenge in metabolomics research is the structural identification of unknown biochemical compounds in complex biofluids. In this paper we present an efficient cheminformatics tool, BioSMXpress that uses known endogenous mammalian biochemicals and graph matching methods to identify endogenous mammalian biochemical structures in chemical structure space. The results of a comprehensive set of empirical experiments suggest that BioSMXpress identifies endogenous mammalian biochemical structures with high accuracy. BioSMXpress is 8 times faster than our previous work BioSM without compromising the accuracy of the predictions made. BioSMXpress is freely available at ~rajasek/BioSMXpress.zip
With the rapid development of high-throughput technologies, researchers can sequence the whole metagenome of a microbial community sampled directly from the environment. The assignment of these metagenomic reads into different species or taxonomical classes is a vital step for metagenomic analysis, which is referred to as binning of metagenomic data. In this paper, we propose a new method TM-MCluster for binning metagenomic reads. First, we represent each metagenomic read as a set of "k-mers" with their frequencies occurring in the read. Then, we employ a probabilistic topic model -- the Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) model to the reads, which generates a number of hidden "topics" such that each read can be represented by a distribution vector of the generated topics. Finally, as in the MCluster method, we apply SKWIC -- a variant of the classical K-means algorithm with automatic feature weighting mechanism to cluster these reads represented by topic distributions. Experiments show that the new method TM-MCluster outperforms major existing methods, including AbundanceBin, MetaCluster 3.0/5.0 and MCluster. This result indicates that the exploitation of topic modeling can effectively improve the binning performance of metagenomic reads.
Ovarian cancer is a deadly female reproductive cancer. Understanding the biological mechanisms underlying ovarian cancer could help lead to quicker and more accurate diagnosis and more effective treatments. Both changes in microRNA(miRNA) expression and miRNA/mRNA dysregulation have been associated with ovarian cancer. With the availability of whole-genome miRNA and mRNA sequencing we now have new potentials to study these associations. In this study, we performed a comprehensive analysis of miRNA and mRNA expression in ovarian cancer using an integrative network approach combined with association analysis. We developed an integrative approach to construct a network that illustrates the complex interplay among miRNA and gene expression from a systems perspective. Our method is composed of expanding networks from eQTL associations, building network associations in eQTL analysis, and then combine the networks into an integrated network. This integrated network takes account of miRNA expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) associations, miRNAs and their targets, protein-protein interactions, co-expressions among miRNAs and genes respectively. Applied to the ovarian cancer data set from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), we created an integrated network with 167 nodes containing 108 miRNA-target interactions and 145 from protein-protein interactions, starting from 44 initial eQTLs. This integrated network encompassed 26 genes and 14 miRNAs associated with cancer. In particular, 11 genes and 12 miRNAs in the integrated network are associated with ovarian cancer. Conclusion: We demonstrated an integrated network approach that integrates multiple data sources at a systems level. We applied this approach to the TCGA ovarian cancer dataset, and constructed a network that provided a more inclusive view of miRNA and gene expression in ovarian cancer. This network included four separate types of interactions among miRNAs and genes. Simply analyzing each interaction component in isolation, such as the eQTL associations, the miRNA-target interactions or the protein-protein interactions, would create a much more limited network than the integrated one.
Progressive sequence alignment is one of the most commonly used method for multiple sequence alignment. Roughly speaking, the method first builds a guide tree, and then aligns the sequences progressively according to the topology of the tree. It is believed that guide trees are very important to progressive alignment; a better guide tree will give an alignment with higher accuracy. Recently, we have proposed an adaptive method for constructing guide trees. This paper studies the quality of the guide trees constructed by such method. Our study showed that our adaptive method can be used to improve the accuracy of many different progressive MSA tools. In fact, we give evidences showing that the guide trees constructed by the adaptive method are among the best.
Spatial frameworks are used to capture organ or whole organism image data in biomedical research. The registration of large biomedical volumetric images is a complex and challenging task, but one that is required for spatially mapped biomedical atlas systems. In most biomedical applications the transforms required are non-rigid and may involve significant deformation relating to variation in pose, natural variation and mutation. Here we develop a new technique to establish such transformations for mapping data that cannot be achieved by existing approaches and that can be used interactively for expert editorial review. This paper presents the Constrained Distance Transform (CDT), a novel method for interactive image registration. The CDT uses radial basis function transforms with distances constrained to geodesics within the domains of the objects being registered. A geodesic distance algorithm is discussed and evaluated. Examples of registration using the CDT are presented. Conclusion: The CDT method is shown to be capable of simultaneous registration and foreground segmentation even when very large deformations are required.
Identifying diagnosis and prognosis biomarkers from expression profiling data is of great significance for achieving personalized medicine and designing therapeutic strategy in complex diseases. However, the reproducibility of identified biomarkers across tissues and experiments is still a challenge for this issue. We propose a strategy based on discriminative area of module activities to identify gene biomarkers which interconnect as a subnetwork or module by integrating gene expression data and protein-protein interactions. Then, we implement the procedure in T2DM as a case study and identify a module biomarker with 32 genes from mRNA expression data in skeletal muscle for T2DM. This module biomarker is enriched with known causal genes and related functions of T2DM. Further analysis shows that the module biomarker is of superior performance in classification, and has consistently high accuracies across tissues and experiments. Conclusion: The proposed approach can efficiently identify robust and functionally meaningful module biomarkers in T2DM, and could be employed in biomarker discovery of other complex diseases characterized by expression profiles. 
Physcomitrella patens, a haploid dominant plant, is fast becoming a useful molecular genetics and bioinformatics tool due to its key phylogenetic position as a bryophyte in the post-genomic era. Genome sequences from select reference species were compared bioinformatically to Physcomitrella patens using reciprocal blasts with the InParanoid software package. A reference protein interaction database assembled using MySQL by compiling BioGrid, BIND, DIP, and Intact databases was queried for moss orthologs existing for both interacting partners. This method has been used to successfully predict interactions for a number of angiosperm plants. The first predicted protein-protein interactome for a bryophyte based on the interolog method contains 67,740 unique interactions from 5,695 different Physcomitrella patens proteins. Most conserved interactions among proteins were those associated with metabolic processes. Over-represented Gene Ontology categories are reported here. Conclusion: Addition of moss, a plant representative 200 million years diverged from angiosperms to interactomic research greatly expands the possibility of conducting comparative analyses giving tremendous insight into network evolution of land plants. This work helps demonstrate the utility of “guilt-by-association” models for predicting protein interactions, providing provisional roadmaps that can be explored using experimental approaches. Included with this dataset is a method for characterizing subnetworks and investigating specific processes, such as the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle. 
The popularity of new sequencing technologies has led to an explosion of possible applications, including new approaches in biodiversity studies. However each of these sequencing technologies suffers from sequencing errors originating from different factors. For 16S rRNA metagenomics studies, the 454 pyrosequencing technology is one of the most frequently used platforms, but sequencing errors still lead to important data analysis issues (e.g. in clustering in taxonomic units and biodiversity estimation). Moreover, retaining a higher portion of the sequencing data by preserving as much of the read length as possible while maintaining the error rate within an acceptable range, will have important consequences at the level of taxonomic precision. The new error correction algorithm proposed in this work - NoDe (Noise Detector) - is trained to identify those positions in 454 sequencing reads that are likely to have an error, and subsequently clusters those error-prone reads with correct reads resulting in error-free representative read. A benchmarking study with other denoising algorithms shows that NoDe can detect up to 75% more errors in a large scale mock community dataset, and this with a low computational cost compared to the second best algorithm considered in this study. The positive effect of NoDe in 16S rRNA studies was confirmed by the beneficial effect on the precision of the clustering of pyrosequencing reads in operational taxonomic units. NoDe was shown to be a computational efficient denoising algorithm for pyrosequencing reads, producing the lowest error rates in an extensive benchmarking study with other denoising algorithms. 
Despite several recent advances in the automated generation of draft metabolic reconstructions, the manual curation of these networks to produce high quality genome-scale metabolic models remains a labour-intensive and challenging task. We present PathwayBooster, an open-source software tool to support the manual comparison and curation of metabolic models. It combines gene annotations from GenBank files and other sources with information retrieved from the metabolic databases BRENDA and KEGG to produce a set of pathway diagrams and reports summarising the evidence for the presence of a reaction in a given organism’s metabolic network. By comparing multiple sources of evidence within a common framework, PathwayBooster assists the curator in the identification of likely false positive (misannotated enzyme) and false negative (pathway hole) reactions. Reaction evidence may be taken from alternative annotations of the same genome and/or a set of closely related organisms. By integrating and visualising evidence from multiple sources, PathwayBooster reduces the manual effort required in the curation of a metabolic model. The software is available online at  
The editors of BMC Bioinformatics would like to thank all our reviewers who have contributed their time to the journal in Volume 14 (2013).
Simulation of populations with specified characteristics such as allele frequencies, linkage disequilibrium etc., is an integral component of many studies, including in-silico breeding optimization. Since the accuracy and sensitivity of population simulation is critical to the quality of the output of the applications that use them, accurate algorithms are required to provide a strong foundation to the methods in these studies. In this paper we present SimBA (Simulation using Best-fit Algorithm) a non-generative approach, based on a combination of stochastic techniques and discrete methods. We optimize a hill climbing algorithm and extend the framework to include multiple subpopulation structures. Additionally, we show that SimBA is very sensitive to the input specifications, i.e., very similar but distinct input characteristics result in distinct outputs with high fidelity to the specified distributions. This property of the simulation is not explicitly modeled or studied by previous methods. We show that SimBA outperforms the existing population simulation methods, both in terms of accuracy as well as time-efficiency. Not only does it construct populations that meet the input specifications more stringently than other published methods, SimBA is also easy to use. It does not require explicit parameter adaptations or calibrations. Also, it can work with input specified as distributions, without an exemplar matrix or population as required by some methods. SimBA is available at 
A usually confronted problem in association studies is the occurrence of population stratification. In this work, we propose a novel framework to consider population matchings in the contexts of genome-wide and sequencing association studies. We employ pairwise and groupwise optimal case-control matchings and present an agglomerative hierarchical clustering, both based on a genetic similarity score matrix. In order to ensure that the resulting matches obtained from the matching algorithm capture correctly the population structure, we propose and discuss two stratum validation methods. We also invent a decisive extension to the Cochran-Armitage Trend test to explicitly take into account the particular population structure. We assess our framework by simulations of genotype data under the null hypothesis, to affirm that it correctly controls for the type-1 error rate. By a power study we evaluate that structured association testing using our framework displays reasonable power. We compare our result with those obtained from a logistic regression model with principal component covariates. Using the principal components approaches we also find a possible false-positive association to Alzheimer’s disease, which is neither supported by our new methods, nor by the results of a most recent large meta analysis or by a mixed model approach. Matching methods provide an alternative handling of confounding due to population stratification for statistical tests for which covariates are hard to model. As a benchmark, we show that our matching framework performs equally well to state of the art models on common variants. 
Semantic approaches such as concept-based information retrieval rely on a corpus in which resources are indexed by concepts belonging to a domain ontology. In order to keep such applications up-to-date, new entities need to be frequently annotated to enrich the corpus. However, this task is time-consuming and requires a high-level of expertise in both the domain and the related ontology. Different strategies have thus been proposed to ease this indexing process, each one taking advantage from the features of the document. In this paper we present USI (User-oriented Semantic Indexer), a fast and intuitive method for indexing tasks. We introduce a solution to suggest a conceptual annotation for new entities based on related already indexed documents. Our results, compared to those obtained by previous authors using the MeSH thesaurus and a dataset of biomedical papers, show that the method surpasses text-specific methods in terms of both quality and speed. Evaluations are done via usual metrics and semantic similarity. By only relying on neighbor documents, the User-oriented Semantic Indexer does not need a representative learning set. Yet, it provides better results than the other approaches by giving a consistent annotation scored with a global criterion — instead of one score per concept.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation-induced drug resistance has caused great difficulties in the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, structural information is available for just a few EGFR mutants. In this study, we created an EGFR Mutant Structural Database (freely available at ), including the 3D EGFR mutant structures and their corresponding binding free energies with two commonly used inhibitors (gefitinib and erlotinib). We collected the information of 942 NSCLC patients belonging to 112 mutation types. These mutation types are divided into five groups (insertion, deletion, duplication, modification and substitution), and substitution accounts for 61.61% of the mutation types and 54.14% of all the patients. Among all the 942 patients, 388 cases experienced a mutation at residue site 858 with leucine replaced by arginine (L858R), making it the most common mutation type. Moreover, 36 (32.14%) mutation types occur at exon 19, and 419 (44.48%) patients carried a mutation at exon 21. In this study, we predicted the EGFR mutant structures using Rosetta with the collected mutation types. In addition, Amber was employed to refine the structures followed by calculating the binding free energies of mutant-drug complexes. The EGFR Mutant Structural Database provides resources of 3D structures and the binding affinity with inhibitors, which can be used by other researchers to study NSCLC further and by medical doctors as reference for NSCLC treatment.
Short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) can knockdown target genes and thus have an immense impact on biology and pharmacy research. The key question of which siRNAs have high knockdown ability in siRNA research remains challenging as current known results are still far from expectation. This work aims to develop a generic framework to enhance siRNA knockdown efficacy prediction. The key idea is first to enrich siRNA sequences by incorporating them with rules found for designing effective siRNAs and representing them as enriched matrices, then to employ the bilinear tensor regression to predict knockdown efficacy of those matrices. Experiments show that the proposed method achieves better results than existing models in most cases. Our model not only provides a suitable siRNA representation but also can predict siRNA efficacy more accurate and stable than most of state–of–the–art models. Source codes are freely available on the web at: ~bao/BiLTR/.
There are recent experimental reports on the cross-regulation between molecules involved in the control of the cell cycle and the differentiation of the vulval precursor cells (VPCs) of Caenorhabditis elegans. Such discoveries provide novel clues on how the molecular mechanisms involved in the cell cycle and cell differentiation processes are coordinated during vulval development. Dynamic computational models are helpful to understand the integrated regulatory mechanisms affecting these cellular processes. Here we propose a simplified model of the regulatory network that includes sufficient molecules involved in the control of both the cell cycle and cell differentiation in the C. elegans vulva to recover their dynamic behavior. We first infer both the topology and the update rules of the cell cycle module from an expected time series. Next, we use a symbolic algorithmic approach to find which interactions must be included in the regulatory network. Finally, we use a continuous-time version of the update rules for the cell cycle module to validate the cyclic behavior of the network, as well as to rule out the presence of potential artifacts due to the synchronous updating of the discrete model. We analyze the dynamical behavior of the model for the wild type and several mutants, finding that most of the results are consistent with published experimental results. Our model shows that the regulation of Notch signaling by the cell cycle preserves the potential of the VPCs and the three vulval fates to differentiate and de-differentiate, allowing them to remain completely responsive to the concentration of LIN-3 and lateral signal in the extracellular microenvironment. 
A pan-genome is defined as the set of all unique gene families found in one or more strains of a prokaryotic species. Due to the extensive within-species diversity in the microbial world, the pan-genome is often many times larger than a single genome. Studies of pan-genomes have become popular due to the easy access to whole-genome sequence data for prokaryotes. A pan-genome study reveals species diversity and gene families that may be of special interest, e.g because of their role in bacterial survival or their ability to discriminate strains. We present an R package for the study of prokaryotic pan-genomes. The R computing environment harbors endless possibilities with respect to statistical analyses and graphics. External free software is used for the heavy computations involved, and the R package provides functions for building a computational pipeline. We demonstrate parts of the package on a data set for the gram positive bacterium Enterococcus faecalis. The package is free to download and install from The Comprehensive R Archive Network. 
Sex chromosomes present a genomic region which to some extent, differs between the genders of a single species. Reliable high-throughput methods for detection of sex chromosomes specific markers are needed, especially in species where genome information is limited. Next generation sequencing (NGS) opens the door for identification of unique sequences or searching for nucleotide polymorphisms between datasets. A combination of classical genetic segregation analysis along with RNA-Seq data can present an ideal tool to map and identify sex chromosome-specific expressed markers. To address this challenge, we established genetic cross of dioecious plant Rumex acetosa and generated RNA-Seq data from both parental generation and male and female offspring. We present a pipeline for detection of sex linked genes based on nucleotide polymorphism analysis. In our approach, tracking of nucleotide polymorphisms is carried out using a cross of preferably distant populations. For this reason, only 4 datasets are needed – reads from high-throughput sequencing platforms for parent generation (mother and father) and F1 generation (male and female progeny). Our pipeline uses custom scripts together with external assembly, mapping and variant calling software. Given the resource-intensive nature of the computation, servers with high capacity are a requirement. Therefore, in order to keep this pipeline easily accessible and reproducible, we implemented it in Galaxy – an open, web-based platform for data-intensive biomedical research. Our tools are present in the Galaxy Tool Shed, from which they can be installed to any local Galaxy instance. As an output of the pipeline, user gets a FASTA file with candidate transcriptionally active sex-linked genes, sorted by their relevance. At the same time, a BAM file with identified genes and alignment of reads is also provided. Thus, polymorphisms following segregation pattern can be easily visualized, which significantly enhances primer design and subsequent steps of wet-lab verification. Our pipeline presents a simple and freely accessible software tool for identification of sex chromosome linked genes in species without an existing reference genome. Based on combination of genetic crosses and RNA-Seq data, we have designed a high-throughput, cost-effective approach for a broad community of scientists focused on sex chromosome structure and evolution. 
Data generated from metabolomics experiments are different from other types of “-omics” data. For example, a common phenomenon in mass spectrometry (MS)-based metabolomics data is that the data matrix frequently contains missing values, which complicates some quantitative analyses. One way to tackle this problem is to treat them as absent. Hence there are two types of information that are available in metabolomics data: presence/absence of a metabolite and a quantitative value of the abundance level of a metabolite if it is present. Combining these two layers of information poses challenges to the application of traditional statistical approaches in differential expression analysis. In this article, we propose a novel kernel-based score test for the metabolomics differential expression analysis. In order to simultaneously capture both the continuous pattern and discrete pattern in metabolomics data, two new kinds of kernels are designed. One is the distance-based kernel and the other is the stratified kernel. While we initially describe the procedures in the case of single-metabolite analysis, we extend the methods to handle metabolite sets as well. Evaluation based on both simulated data and real data from a liver cancer metabolomics study indicates that our kernel method has a better performance than some existing alternatives. An implementation of the proposed kernel method in the R statistical computing environment is available at  
Decoding the temporal control of gene expression patterns is key to the understanding of the complex mechanisms that govern developmental decisions during heart development. High-throughput methods have been employed to systematically study the dynamic and coordinated nature of cardiac differentiation at the global level with multiple dimensions. Therefore, there is a pressing need to develop a systems approach to integrate these data from individual studies and infer the dynamic regulatory networks in an unbiased fashion. We developed a two-step strategy to integrate data from (1) temporal RNA-seq, (2) temporal histone modification ChIP-seq, (3) transcription factor (TF) ChIP-seq and (4) gene perturbation experiments to reconstruct the dynamic network during heart development. First, we trained a logistic regression model to predict the probability (LR score) of any base being bound by 543 TFs with known positional weight matrices. Second, four dimensions of data were combined using a time-varying dynamic Bayesian network model to infer the dynamic networks at four developmental stages in the mouse [mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs), mesoderm (MES), cardiac progenitors (CP) and cardiomyocytes (CM)]. Our method not only infers the time-varying networks between different stages of heart development, but it also identifies the TF binding sites associated with promoter or enhancers of downstream genes.The LR scores of experimentally verified ESCs and heart enhancers were significantly higher than random regions (p <10−100), suggesting that a high LR score is a reliable indicator for functional TF binding sites. Our network inference model identified a region with an elevated LR score approximately −9400 bp upstream of the transcriptional start site of Nkx2-5, which overlapped with a previously reported enhancer region (−9435 to −8922 bp). TFs such as Tead1, Gata4, Msx2, and Tgif1 were predicted to bind to this region and participate in the regulation of Nkx2-5 gene expression. Our model also predicted the key regulatory networks for the ESC-MES, MES-CP and CP-CM transitions. Conclusion: We report a novel method to systematically integrate multi-dimensional -omics data and reconstruct the gene regulatory networks. This method will allow one to rapidly determine the cis-modules that regulate key genes during cardiac differentiation. 
Sequencing studies of exonic regions aim to identify rare variants contributing to complex traits. With high coverage and large sample size, these studies tend to apply simple variant calling algorithms. However, coverage is often heterogeneous; sites with insufficient coverage may benefit from sophisticated calling algorithms used in low-coverage sequencing studies. We evaluate the potential benefits of different calling strategies by performing a comparative analysis of variant calling methods on exonic data from 202 genes sequenced at 24x in 7,842 individuals. We call variants using individual-based, population-based and linkage disequilibrium (LD)-aware methods with stringent quality control. We measure genotype accuracy by the concordance with on-target GWAS genotypes and between 80 pairs of sequencing replicates. We validate selected singleton variants using capillary sequencing. Using these calling methods, we detected over 27,500 variants at the targeted exons; >57% were singletons. The singletons identified by individual-based analyses were of the highest quality. However, individual-based analyses generated more missing genotypes (4.72%) than population-based (0.47%) and LD-aware (0.17%) analyses. Moreover, individual-based genotypes were the least concordant with array-based genotypes and replicates. Population-based genotypes were less concordant than genotypes from LD-aware analyses with extended haplotypes. We reanalyzed the same dataset with a second set of callers and showed again that the individual-based caller identified more high-quality singletons than the population-based caller. We also replicated this result in a second dataset of 57 genes sequenced at 127.5x in 3,124 individuals. We recommend population-based analyses for high quality variant calls with few missing genotypes. With extended haplotypes, LD-aware methods generate the most accurate and complete genotypes. In addition, individual-based analyses should complement the above methods to obtain the most singleton variants. 
Obesity-induced chronic inflammation plays a fundamental role in the pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome (MS). Recently, a growing body of evidence supports that miRNAs are largely dysregulated in obesity and that specific miRNAs regulate obesity-associated inflammation. We applied an approach aiming to identify active miRNA-TF-gene regulatory pathways in obesity. Firstly, we detected differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially expressed miRNAs (DEmiRs) from mRNA and miRNA expression profiles, respectively. Secondly, by mapping the DEGs and DEmiRs to the curated miRNA-TF-gene regulatory network as active seed nodes and connect them with their immediate neighbors, we obtained the potential active miRNA-TF-gene regulatory subnetwork in obesity. Thirdly, using a Breadth-First-Search (BFS) algorithm, we identified potential active miRNA-TF-gene regulatory pathways in obesity. Finally, through the hypergeometric test, we identified the active miRNA-TF-gene regulatory pathways that were significantly related to obesity. The potential active pathways with FDR < 0.0005 were considered to be the active miRNA-TF regulatory pathways in obesity. The union of the active pathways is visualized and identical nodes of the active pathways were merged. We identified 23 active miRNA-TF-gene regulatory pathways that were significantly related to obesity-related inflammation. 
Massive parallel sequencing is a powerful tool for variant discovery and genotyping. To reduce costs, sequencing of restriction enzyme based reduced representation libraries can be utilized. This technology is generally referred to as Genotyping By Sequencing (GBS). To deal with GBS experimental design and initial processing specific bioinformatic tools are needed. GBSX is a package that assists in selecting the appropriate enzyme and the design of compatible in-line barcodes. Post sequencing, it performs optimized demultiplexing using these barcodes to create fastq files per barcode which can easily be plugged into existing variant analysis pipelines. Here we demonstrate the usability of the GBSX toolkit and demonstrate improved in-line barcode demultiplexing and trimming performance compared to existing tools. GBSX provides an easy to use suite of tools for designing and demultiplexing of GBS experiments.
Human Papillomavirus (HPV) genotyping is an important approach to fight cervical cancer due to the relevant information regarding risk stratification for diagnosis and the better understanding of the relationship of HPV with carcinogenesis. This paper proposed two new feature extraction techniques, i.e. ChaosCentroid and ChaosFrequency, for predicting HPV genotypes associated with the cancer. The additional diversified 12 HPV genotypes, i.e. types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 35, 45, 52, 53, 58, and 66, were studied in this paper.In our proposed techniques, a partitioned Chaos Game Representation (CGR) is deployed to represent HPV genomes. ChaosCentroid captures the structure of sequences in terms of centroid of each sub-region with Euclidean distances among the centroids and the center of CGR as the relations of all sub-regions. ChaosFrequency extracts the statistical distribution of mono-, di-, or higher order nucleotides along HPV genomes and forms a matrix of frequency of dots in each sub-region. For performance evaluation, four different types of classifiers, i.e. Multi-layer Perceptron, Radial Basis Function, K-Nearest Neighbor, and Fuzzy K-Nearest Neighbor Techniques were deployed, and our best results from each classifier were compared with the NCBI genotyping tool. The experimental results obtained by four different classifiers are in the same trend. ChaosCentroid gave considerably higher performance than ChaosFrequency when the input length is one but it was moderately lower than ChaosFrequency when the input length is two. Both proposed techniques yielded almost or exactly the best performance when the input length is more than three. But there is no significance between our proposed techniques and the comparative alignment method. Our proposed alignment-free and scale-independent method can successfully transform HPV genomes with 7,000 - 10,000 base pairs into features of 1 - 11 dimensions. This signifies that our ChaosCentroid and ChaosFrequency can be served as the effective feature extraction techniques for predicting the HPV genotypes. 
Transposable elements constitute an important part of the genome and are essential in adaptive mechanisms. Transposition events associated with phenotypic changes occur naturally or are induced in insertional mutant populations. Transposon mutagenesis results in multiple random insertions and recovery of most/all the insertions is critical for forward genetics study. Using genome next-generation sequencing data and appropriate bioinformatics tool, it is plausible to accurately identify transposon insertion sites, which could provide candidate causal mutations for desired phenotypes for further functional validation. We developed a novel bioinformatics tool, ITIS (Identification of Transposon Insertion Sites), for localizing transposon insertion sites within a genome. It takes next-generation genome re-sequencing data (NGS data), transposon sequence, and reference genome sequence as input, and generates a list of highly reliable candidate insertion sites as well as zygosity information of each insertion. Using a simulated dataset and a case study based on an insertional mutant line from Medicago truncatula, we showed that ITIS performed better in terms of sensitivity and specificity than other similar algorithms such as RelocaTE, RetroSeq, TEMP and TIF. With the case study data, we demonstrated the efficiency of ITIS by validating the presence and zygosity of predicted insertion sites of the Tnt1 transposon within a complex plant system, M. truncatula. Conclusion: This study showed that ITIS is a robust and powerful tool for forward genetic studies in identifying transposable element insertions causing phenotypes. ITIS is suitable in various systems such as cell culture, bacteria, yeast, insect, mammal and plant. 
Gene set testing is typically performed in a supervised context to quantify the association between groups of genes and a clinical phenotype. In many cases, however, a gene set-based interpretation of genomic data is desired in the absence of a phenotype variable. Although methods exist for unsupervised gene set testing, they predominantly compute enrichment relative to clusters of the genomic variables with performance strongly dependent on the clustering algorithm and number of clusters. We propose a novel method, spectral gene set enrichment (SGSE), for unsupervised competitive testing of the association between gene sets and empirical data sources. SGSE first computes the statistical association between gene sets and principal components (PCs) using our principal component gene set enrichment (PCGSE) method. The overall statistical association between each gene set and the spectral structure of the data is then computed by combining the PC-level p-values using the weighted Z-method with weights set to the PC variance scaled by Tracy-Widom test p-values. Using simulated data, we show that the SGSE algorithm can accurately recover spectral features from noisy data. To illustrate the utility of our method on real data, we demonstrate the superior performance of the SGSE method relative to standard cluster-based techniques for testing the association between MSigDB gene sets and the variance structure of microarray gene expression data. Unsupervised gene set testing can provide important information about the biological signal held in high-dimensional genomic data sets. Because it uses the association between gene sets and samples PCs to generate a measure of unsupervised enrichment, the SGSE method is independent of cluster or network creation algorithms and, most importantly, is able to utilize the statistical significance of PC eigenvalues to ignore elements of the data most likely to represent noise. 
Workflows, or computational pipelines, consisting of collections of multiple linked tasks are becoming more and more popular in many scientific fields, including computational biology. For example, simulation studies, which are now a must for statistical validation of new bioinformatics methods and software, are frequently carried out using the available workflow platforms. Workflows are typically organized to minimize the total execution time and to maximize the efficiency of the included operations. Clustering algorithms can be applied either for regrouping similar workflows for their simultaneous execution on a server, or for dispatching some lengthy workflows to different servers, or for classifying the available workflows with a view to performing a specific keyword search. In this study, we consider four different workflow encoding and clustering schemes which are representative for bioinformatics projects. Some of them allow for clustering workflows with similar topological features, while the others regroup workflows according to their specific attributes (e.g. associated keywords) or execution time. The four types of workflow encoding examined in this study were compared using the weighted versions of k-means and k-medoids partitioning algorithms. The Calinski-Harabasz, Silhouette and logSS clustering indices were considered. Hierarchical classification methods, including the UPGMA, Neighbor Joining, Fitch and Kitsch algorithms, were also applied to classify bioinformatics workflows. Moreover, a novel pairwise measure of clustering solution stability, which can be computed in situations when a series of independent program runs is carried out, was introduced. Our findings based on the analysis of 220 real-life bioinformatics workflows suggest that the weighted clustering models based on keywords information or tasks execution times provide the most appropriate clustering solutions. Using datasets generated by the Armadillo and Taverna scientific workflow management system, we found that the weighted cosine distance in association with the k-medoids partitioning algorithm and the presence-absence workflow encoding provided the highest values of the Rand index among all compared clustering strategies. The introduced clustering stability indices, PS and PSG, can be effectively used to identify elements with a low clustering support. 
Fuelled by the advent and subsequent development of next generation sequencing technologies, metagenomics became a powerful tool for the analysis of microbial communities both scientifically and diagnostically. The biggest challenge is the extraction of relevant information from the huge sequence datasets generated for metagenomics studies. Although a plethora of tools are available, data analysis is still a bottleneck. To overcome the bottleneck of data analysis, we developed an automated computational workflow called RIEMS – Reliable Information Extraction from Metagenomic Sequence datasets. RIEMS assigns every individual read sequence within a dataset taxonomically by cascading different sequence analyses with decreasing stringency of the assignments using various software applications. After completion of the analyses, the results are summarised in a clearly structured result protocol organised taxonomically. The high accuracy and performance of RIEMS analyses were proven in comparison with other tools for metagenomics data analysis using simulated sequencing read datasets. RIEMS has the potential to fill the gap that still exists with regard to data analysis for metagenomics studies. The usefulness and power of RIEMS for the analysis of genuine sequencing datasets was demonstrated with an early version of RIEMS in 2011 when it was used to detect the orthobunyavirus sequences leading to the discovery of Schmallenberg virus. 
Massive sequencing of genes from different environments has evolved metagenomics as central to enhancing the understanding of the wide diversity of micro-organisms and their roles in driving ecological processes. Reduced cost and high throughput sequencing has made large-scale projects achievable to a wider group of researchers, though complete metagenome sequencing is still a daunting task in terms of sequencing as well as the downstream bioinformatics analyses. Alternative approaches such as targeted amplicon sequencing requires custom PCR primer generation, and is not scalable to thousands of genes or gene families. In this study, we are presenting a web-based tool called MetCap that circumvents the limitations of amplicon sequencing of multiple genes by designing probes that are suitable for large-scale targeted metagenomics sequencing studies. MetCap provides a novel approach to target thousands of genes and genomic regions that could be used in targeted metagenomics studies. Automatic analysis of user-defined sequences is performed, and probes specifically designed for metagenome studies are generated. To illustrate the advantage of a targeted metagenome approach, we have generated more than 300,000 probes that match more than 400,000 publicly available sequences related to carbon degradation, and used these probes for target sequencing in a soil metagenome study. The results show high enrichment of target genes and a successful capturing of the majority of gene families. MetCap is freely available to users from:  Conclusion: MetCap is facilitating probe-based target enrichment as an easy and efficient alternative tool compared to complex primer-based enrichment for large-scale investigations of metagenomes. Our results have shown efficient large-scale target enrichment through MetCap-designed probes for a soil metagenome. The web service is suitable for any targeted metagenomics project that aims to study several genes simultaneously. The novel bioinformatics approach taken by the web service will enable researchers in microbial ecology to tap into the vast diversity of microbial communities using targeted metagenomics as a cost-effective alternative to whole metagenome sequencing. 
Somatically acquired structure variations (SVs) and copy number variations (CNVs) can induce genetic changes that are directly related to tumor genesis. Somatic SV/CNV detection using next-generation sequencing (NGS) data still faces major challenges introduced by tumor sample characteristics, such as ploidy, heterogeneity, and purity. A simulated cancer genome with known SVs and CNVs can serve as a benchmark for evaluating the performance of existing somatic SV/CNV detection tools and developing new methods. SCNVSim is a tool for simulating somatic CNVs and structure variations SVs. Other than multiple types of SV and CNV events, the tool is capable of simulating important features related to tumor samples including aneuploidy, heterogeneity and purity. SCNVSim generates the genomes of a cancer cell population with detailed information of copy number status, loss of heterozygosity (LOH), and event break points, which is essential for developing and evaluating somatic CNV and SV detection methods in cancer genomics studies.
With the exponential increase and widespread availability of genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic data, accessing these ‘-omics’ data is becoming increasingly difficult. The current resources for accessing and analyzing these data have been created to perform highly specific functions intended for specialists, and thus typically emphasize functionality over user experience. We have developed a web-based application, GeneDig.org, that allows any general user access to genomic information with ease and efficiency. GeneDig allows for searching and browsing genes and genomes, while a dynamic navigator displays genomic, RNA, and protein information simultaneously for co-navigation. We demonstrate that our application allows more than five times faster and efficient access to genomic information than any currently available methods. Conclusion: We have developed GeneDig as a platform for bioinformatics integration focused on usability as its central design. This platform will introduce genomic navigation to broader audiences while aiding the bioinformatics analyses performed in everyday biology research. 
Several missing value imputation methods for gene expression data have been proposed in the literature. In the past few years, researchers have been putting a great deal of effort into presenting systematic evaluations of the different imputation algorithms. Initially, most algorithms were assessed with an emphasis on the accuracy of the imputation, using metrics such as the root mean squared error. However, it has become clear that the success of the estimation of the expression value should be evaluated in more practical terms as well. One can consider, for example, the ability of the method to preserve the significant genes in the dataset, or its discriminative/predictive power for classification/clustering purposes. Results and conclusions: We performed a broad analysis of the impact of five well-known missing value imputation methods on three clustering and four classification methods, in the context of 12 cancer gene expression datasets. We employed a statistical framework, for the first time in this field, to assess whether different imputation methods improve the performance of the clustering/classification methods. Our results suggest that the imputation methods evaluated have a minor impact on the classification and downstream clustering analyses. Simple methods such as replacing the missing values by mean or the median values performed as well as more complex strategies. The datasets analyzed in this study are available at  
Gene expression profiling (GEP) via microarray analysis is a widely used tool for assessing risk and other patient diagnostics in clinical settings. However, non-biological factors such as systematic changes in sample preparation, differences in scanners, and other potential batch effects are often unavoidable in long-term studies and meta-analysis. In order to reduce the impact of batch effects on microarray data, Johnson, Rabinovic, and Li developed ComBat for use when combining batches of gene expression microarray data.We propose a modification to ComBat that centers data to the location and scale of a pre-determined, ‘gold-standard’ batch. This modified ComBat (M-Combat) is designed specifically in the context of meta-analysis and batch effect adjustment for use with predictive models that are validated and fixed on historical data from a ‘gold-standard’ batch. We combined data from MIRT across two batches (‘Old’ and ‘New’ Kit sample preparation) as well as external data sets from the HOVON-65/GMMG-HD4 and MRC-IX trials into a combined set, first without transformation and then with both ComBat and M-ComBat transformations. Fixed and validated gene risk signatures developed at MIRT on the Old Kit standard (GEP5, GEP70, and GEP80 risk scores) were compared across these combined data sets.Both ComBat and M-ComBat eliminated all of the differences among probes caused by systematic batch effects (over 98% of all untransformed probes were significantly different by ANOVA with 0.01 q-value threshold reduced to zero significant probes with ComBat and M-ComBat). The agreement in mean and distribution of risk scores, as well as the proportion of high-risk subjects identified, coincided with the ‘gold-standard’ batch more with M-ComBat than with ComBat. The performance of risk scores improved overall using either ComBat or M-Combat; however, using M-ComBat and the original, optimal risk cutoffs allowed for greater ability in our study to identify smaller cohorts of high-risk subjects. Conclusion: M-ComBat is a practical modification to an accepted method that offers greater power to control the location and scale of batch-effect adjusted data. M-ComBat allows for historical models to function as intended on future samples despite known, often unavoidable systematic changes to gene expression data.
Mass spectrometric analysis of microbial metabolism provides a long list of possible compounds. Restricting the identification of the possible compounds to those produced by the specific organism would benefit the identification process. Currently, identification of mass spectrometry (MS) data is commonly done using empirically derived compound databases. Unfortunately, most databases contain relatively few compounds, leaving long lists of unidentified molecules. Incorporating genome-encoded metabolism enables MS output identification that may not be included in databases. Using an organism’s genome as a database restricts metabolite identification to only those compounds that the organism can produce. To address the challenge of metabolomic analysis from MS data, a web-based application to directly search genome-constructed metabolic databases was developed. The user query returns a genome-restricted list of possible compound identifications along with the putative metabolic pathways based on the name, formula, SMILES structure, and the compound mass as defined by the user. Multiple queries can be done simultaneously by submitting a text file created by the user or obtained from the MS analysis software. The user can also provide parameters specific to the experiment’s MS analysis conditions, such as mass deviation, adducts, and detection mode during the query so as to provide additional levels of evidence to produce the tentative identification. The query results are provided as an HTML page and downloadable text file of possible compounds that are restricted to a specific genome. Hyperlinks provided in the HTML file connect the user to the curated metabolic databases housed in ProCyc, a Pathway Tools platform, as well as the KEGG Pathway database for visualization and metabolic pathway analysis. Metabolome Searcher, a web-based tool, facilitates putative compound identification of MS output based on genome-restricted metabolic capability. This enables researchers to rapidly extend the possible identifications of large data sets for metabolites that are not in compound databases. Putative compound names with their associated metabolic pathways from metabolomics data sets are returned to the user for additional biological interpretation and visualization. This novel approach enables compound identification by restricting the possible masses to those encoded in the genome.
Accurately predicting the binding affinities of large sets of protein-ligand complexes is a key challenge in computational biomolecular science, with applications in drug discovery, chemical biology, and structural biology. Since a scoring function (SF) is used to score, rank, and identify drug leads, the fidelity with which it predicts the affinity of a ligand candidate for a protein's binding site has a significant bearing on the accuracy of virtual screening. Despite intense efforts in developing conventional SFs, which are either force-field based, knowledge-based, or empirical, their limited predictive power has been a major roadblock toward cost-effective drug discovery. Therefore, in this work, we present novel SFs employing a large ensemble of neural networks (NN) in conjunction with a diverse set of physicochemical and geometrical features characterizing protein-ligand complexes to predict binding affinity. We assess the scoring accuracies of two new ensemble NN SFs based on bagging (BgN-Score) and boosting (BsN-Score), as well as those of conventional SFs in the context of the 2007 PDBbind benchmark that encompasses a diverse set of high-quality protein families. We find that BgN-Score and BsN-Score have more than 25% better Pearson's correlation coefficient (0.804 and 0.816 vs. 0.644) between predicted and measured binding affinities compared to that achieved by a state-of-the-art conventional SF. In addition, these ensemble NN SFs are also at least 19% more accurate (0.804 and 0.816 vs. 0.675) than SFs based on a single neural network that has been traditionally used in drug discovery applications. We further find that ensemble models based on NNs surpass SFs based on the decision-tree ensemble technique Random Forests. Ensemble neural networks SFs, BgN-Score and BsN-Score, are the most accurate in predicting binding affinity of protein-ligand complexes among the considered SFs. Moreover, their accuracies are even higher when they are used to predict binding affinities of protein-ligand complexes that are related to their training sets.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important key regulators in multiple cellular functions, due to their a crucial role in different physiological processes. MiRNAs are differentially expressed in specific tissues, during specific cell status, or in different diseases as tumours. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) is a Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) method for the analysis of differential gene expression. Using machine learning algorithms, it is possible to improve the functional significance interpretation of miRNA in the analysis and interpretation of data from RNA-seq. Furthermore, we tried to identify some patterns of deregulated miRNA in human breast cancer (BC), in order to give a contribution in the understanding of this type of cancer at the molecular level. We adopted a biclustering approach, using the Iterative Signature Algorithm (ISA) algorithm, in order to evaluate miRNA deregulation in the context of miRNA abundance and tissue heterogeneity. These are important elements to identify miRNAs that would be useful as prognostic and diagnostic markers. Considering a real word breast cancer dataset, the evaluation of miRNA differential expressions in tumours versus healthy tissues evidenced 12 different miRNA clusters, associated to specific groups of patients. The identified miRNAs were deregulated in breast tumours compared to healthy controls. Our approach has shown the association between specific sub-class of tumour samples having the same immuno-histo-chemical and/or histological features. Biclusters have been validated by means of two online repositories, MetaMirClust database and UCSC Genome Browser, and using another biclustering algorithm. The obtained results with biclustering algorithm aimed first of all to give a contribute in the differential expression analysis in a cohort of BC patients and secondly to support the potential role that these non-coding RNA molecules could play in the clinical practice, in terms of prognosis, evolution of tumour and treatment response.
Beef quality measurement is a complex task with high economic impact. There is high interest in obtaining an automatic quality parameters estimation in live cattle or post mortem. In this paper we set out to obtain beef quality estimates from the analysis of ultrasound (in vivo) and color images (post mortem), with the measurement of various parameters related to tenderness and amount of meat: rib eye area, percentage of intramuscular fat and backfat thickness or subcutaneous fat. Proposal: An algorithm based on curve evolution is implemented to calculate the rib eye area. The backfat thickness is estimated from the profile of distances between two curves that limit the steak and the rib eye, previously detected. A model base in Support Vector Regression (SVR) is trained to estimate the intramuscular fat percentage. A series of features extracted on a region of interest, previously detected in both ultrasound and color images, were proposed. In all cases, a complete evaluation was performed with different databases including: color and ultrasound images acquired by a beef industry expert, intramuscular fat estimation obtained by an expert using a commercial software, and chemical analysis. The proposed algorithms show good results to calculate the rib eye area and the backfat thickness measure and profile. They are also promising in predicting the percentage of intramuscular fat.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is characterized by various cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities. Detection of these abnormalities is important in the risk-classification of patients but requires laborious experimentation. Various studies showed that gene expression profiles (GEP), and the gene signatures derived from GEP, can be used for the prediction of subtypes in AML. Similarly, successful prediction was also achieved by exploiting DNA-methylation profiles (DMP). There are, however, no studies that compared classification accuracy and performance between GEP and DMP, neither are there studies that integrated both types of data to determine whether predictive power can be improved. Approach: Here, we used 344 well-characterized AML samples for which both gene expression and DNA-methylation profiles are available. We created three different classification strategies including early, late and no integration of these datasets and used them to predict AML subtypes using a logistic regression model with Lasso regularization. We illustrate that both gene expression and DNA-methylation profiles contain distinct patterns that contribute to discriminating AML subtypes and that an integration strategy can exploit these patterns to achieve synergy between both data types. We show that concatenation of features from both data sets, i.e. early integration, improves the predictive power compared to classifiers trained on GEP or DMP alone. A more sophisticated strategy, i.e. the late integration strategy, employs a two-layer classifier which outperforms the early integration strategy. Conclusion: We demonstrate that prediction of known cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities in AML can be further improved by integrating GEP and DMP profiles.
The wingless-Int (WNT) pathway has an essential role in cell regulation of hematopoietic stem cells (HSC). For Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), the malignant counterpart of HSC, currently only a selective number of genes of the WNT pathway are analyzed by using either gene expression or DNA-methylation profiles for the identification of prognostic markers and potential candidate targets for drug therapy. It is known that mRNA expression is controlled by DNA-methylation and that specific patterns can infer the ability to differentiate biological differences, thus a combined analysis using all WNT annotated genes could provide more insight in the WNT signaling. Approach: We created a computational approach that integrates gene expression and DNA promoter methylation profiles. The approach represents the continuous gene expression and promoter methylation profiles with nine discrete mutually exclusive scenarios. The scenario representation allows for a refinement of patient groups by a more powerful statistical analysis, and the construction of a co-expression network. We focused on 268 WNT annotated signaling genes that are derived from the molecular signature database. Using the scenarios we identified seven prognostic markers for overall survival and event-free survival. Three genes are novel prognostic markers; two with favorable outcome (PSMD2, PPARD) and one with unfavorable outcome (XPNPEP). The remaining four genes (LEF1, SFRP2, RUNX1, and AXIN2) were previously identified but we could refine the patient groups. Three AML risk groups were further analyzed and the co-expression network showed that only the good risk group harbors frequent promoter hypermethylation and significantly correlated interactions with proteasome family members. Conclusion: Our results provide novel insights in WNT signaling in AML, we discovered new and previously identified prognostic markers and a refinement of the patient groups.
Cellular processes are known to be modular and are realized by groups of proteins implicated in common biological functions. Such groups of proteins are called functional modules, and many community detection methods have been devised for their discovery from protein interaction networks (PINs) data. In current agglomerative clustering approaches, vertices with just a very few neighbors are often classified as separate clusters, which does not make sense biologically. Also, a major limitation of agglomerative techniques is that their computational efficiency do not scale well to large PINs. Finally, PIN data obtained from large scale experiments generally contain many false positives, and this makes it hard for agglomerative clustering methods to find the correct clusters, since they are known to be sensitive to noisy data. We propose a local similarity premetric, the relative vertex clustering value, as a new criterion allowing to decide when a node can be added to a given node's cluster and which addresses the above three issues. Based on this criterion, we introduce a novel and very fast agglomerative clustering technique, FAC-PIN, for discovering functional modules and protein complexes from a PIN data. Our proposed FAC-PIN algorithm is applied to nine PIN data from eight different species including the yeast PIN, and the identified functional modules are validated using Gene Ontology (GO) annotations from DAVID Bioinformatics Resources. Identified protein complexes are also validated using experimentally verified complexes. Computational results show that FAC-PIN can discover functional modules or protein complexes from PINs more accurately and more efficiently than HC-PIN and CNM, the current state-of-the-art approaches for clustering PINs in an agglomerative manner.
Data from biomedical domains often have an inherit hierarchical structure. As this structure is usually implicit, its existence can be overlooked by practitioners interested in constructing and evaluating predictive models from such data. Ignoring these constructs leads to potentially problematic and the routinely unrecognized bias in the models and results. In this work, we discuss this bias in detail and propose a simple, sampling-based solution for it. Next, we explore its sources and extent on synthetic data. Finally, we demonstrate how the state-of-the-art variant prioritization framework, eXtasy, benefits from using the described approach in its Random forest-based core classification model. Results and conclusions: The conducted simulations clearly indicate that the heterogeneous granularity of feature domains poses significant problems for both the standard Random forest classifier and a modification that relies on stratified bootstrapping. Conversely, using the proposed sampling scheme when training the classifier mitigates the described bias. Furthermore, when applied to the eXtasy data under a realistic class distribution scenario, a Random forest learned using the proposed sampling scheme displays much better precision that its standard version, without degrading recall. Moreover, the largest performance gains are achieved in the most important part of the operating range: the top of prioritized gene list.
The functioning of a protein relies on its location in the cell. Therefore, predicting protein subcellular localization is an important step towards protein function prediction. Recent studies have shown that relying on Gene Ontology (GO) for feature extraction can improve the prediction performance. However, for newly sequenced proteins, the GO is not available. Therefore, for these cases, the prediction performance of GO based methods degrade significantly. In this study, we develop a method to effectively employ physicochemical and evolutionary-based information in the protein sequence. To do this, we propose segmentation based feature extraction method to explore potential discriminatory information based on physicochemical properties of the amino acids to tackle Gram-positive and Gram-negative subcellular localization. We explore our proposed feature extraction techniques using 10 attributes that have been experimentally selected among a wide range of physicochemical attributes. Finally by applying the Rotation Forest classification technique to our extracted features, we enhance Gram-positive and Gram-negative subcellular localization accuracies up to 3.4% better than previous studies which used GO for feature extraction. Conclusion: By proposing segmentation based feature extraction method to explore potential discriminatory information based on physicochemical properties of the amino acids as well as using Rotation Forest classification technique, we are able to enhance the Gram-positive and Gram-negative subcellular localization prediction accuracies, significantly.
Deep-sequencing allows for an in-depth characterization of sequence variation in complex populations. However, technology associated errors may impede a powerful assessment of low-frequency mutations. Fortunately, base calls are complemented with quality scores which are derived from a quadruplet of intensities, one channel for each nucleotide type for Illumina sequencing. The highest intensity of the four channels determines the base that is called. Mismatch bases can often be corrected by the second best base, i.e. the base with the second highest intensity in the quadruplet. A virus variant model-based clustering method, ViVaMBC, is presented that explores quality scores and second best base calls for identifying and quantifying viral variants. ViVaMBC is optimized to call variants at the codon level (nucleotide triplets) which enables immediate biological interpretation of the variants with respect to their antiviral drug responses. Using mixtures of HCV plasmids we show that our method accurately estimates frequencies down to 0.5%. The estimates are unbiased when average coverages of 25,000 are reached. A comparison with the SNP-callers V-Phaser2, ShoRAH, and LoFreq shows that ViVaMBC has a superb sensitivity and specificity for variants with frequencies above 0.4%. Unlike the competitors, ViVaMBC reports a higher number of false-positive findings with frequencies below 0.4% which might partially originate from picking up artificial variants introduced by errors in the sample and library preparation step. ViVaMBC is the first method to call viral variants directly at the codon level. The strength of the approach lies in modeling the error probabilities based on the quality scores. Although the use of second best base calls appeared very promising in our data exploration phase, their utility was limited. They provided a slight increase in sensitivity, which however does not warrant the additional computational cost of running the offline base caller. Apparently a lot of information is already contained in the quality scores enabling the model based clustering procedure to adjust the majority of the sequencing errors. Overall the sensitivity of ViVaMBC is such that technical constraints like PCR errors start to form the bottleneck for low frequency variant detection. 
Allelic specific expression (ASE) increases our understanding of the genetic control of gene expression and its links to phenotypic variation. ASE testing is implemented through binomial or beta-binomial tests of sequence read counts of alternative alleles at a cSNP of interest in heterozygous individuals. This requires prior ascertainment of the cSNP genotypes for all individuals. To meet the needs, we propose hidden Markov methods to call SNPs from next generation RNA sequence data when ASE possibly exists. We propose two hidden Markov models (HMMs), HMM-ASE and HMM-NASE that consider or do not consider ASE, respectively, in order to improve genotyping accuracy. Both HMMs have the advantages of calling the genotypes of several SNPs simultaneously and allow mapping error which, respectively, utilize the dependence among SNPs and correct the bias due to mapping error. In addition, HMM-ASE exploits ASE information to further improve genotype accuracy when the ASE is likely to be present.Simulation results indicate that the HMMs proposed demonstrate a very good prediction accuracy in terms of controlling both the false discovery rate (FDR) and the false negative rate (FNR). When ASE is present, the HMM-ASE had a lower FNR than HMM-NASE, while both can control the false discovery rate (FDR) at a similar level. By exploiting linkage disequilibrium (LD), a real data application demonstrate that the proposed methods have better sensitivity and similar FDR in calling heterozygous SNPs than the VarScan method. Sensitivity and FDR are similar to that of the BCFtools and Beagle methods. The resulting genotypes show good properties for the estimation of the genetic parameters and ASE ratios. We introduce HMMs, which are able to exploit LD and account for the ASE and mapping errors, to simultaneously call SNPs from the next generation RNA sequence data. The method introduced can reliably call for cSNP genotypes even in the presence of ASE and under low sequencing coverage. As a byproduct, the proposed method is able to provide predictions of ASE ratios for the heterozygous genotypes, which can then be used for ASE testing. 
ChIP-seq has become a routine method for interrogating the genome-wide distribution of various histone modifications. An important experimental goal is to compare the ChIP-seq profiles between an experimental sample and a reference sample, and to identify regions that show differential enrichment. However, comparative analysis of samples remains challenging for histone modifications with broad domains, such as heterochromatin-associated H3K27me3, as most ChIP-seq algorithms are designed to detect well defined peak-like features. To address this limitation we introduce histoneHMM, a powerful bivariate Hidden Markov Model for the differential analysis of histone modifications with broad genomic footprints. histoneHMM aggregates short-reads over larger regions and takes the resulting bivariate read counts as inputs for an unsupervised classification procedure, requiring no further tuning parameters. histoneHMM outputs probabilistic classifications of genomic regions as being either modified in both samples, unmodified in both samples or differentially modified between samples. We extensively tested histoneHMM in the context of two broad repressive marks, H3K27me3 and H3K9me3, and evaluated region calls with follow up qPCR as well as RNA-seq data. Our results show that histoneHMM outperforms competing methods in detecting functionally relevant differentially modified regions. Conclusion: histoneHMM is a fast algorithm written in C++ and compiled as an R package. It runs in the popular R computing environment and thus seamlessly integrates with the extensive bioinformatic tool sets available through Bioconductor. This makeshistoneHMM an attractive choice for the differential analysis of ChIP-seq data. Software is available from  
Current biomedical research needs to leverage and exploit the large amount of information reported in scientific publications. Automated text mining approaches, in particular those aimed at finding relationships between entities, are key for identification of actionable knowledge from free text repositories. We present the BeFree system aimed at identifying relationships between biomedical entities with a special focus on genes and their associated diseases. By exploiting morpho-syntactic information of the text, BeFree is able to identify gene-disease, drug-disease and drug-target associations with state-of-the-art performance. The application of BeFree to real-case scenarios shows its effectiveness in extracting information relevant for translational research. We show the value of the gene-disease associations extracted by BeFree through a number of analyses and integration with other data sources. BeFree succeeds in identifying genes associated to a major cause of morbidity worldwide, depression, which are not present in other public resources. Moreover, large-scale extraction and analysis of gene-disease associations, and integration with current biomedical knowledge, provided interesting insights on the kind of information that can be found in the literature, and raised challenges regarding data prioritization and curation. We found that only a small proportion of the gene-disease associations discovered by using BeFree is collected in expert-curated databases. Thus, there is a pressing need to find alternative strategies to manual curation, in order to review, prioritize and curate text-mining data and incorporate it into domain-specific databases. We present our strategy for data prioritization and discuss its implications for supporting biomedical research and applications. BeFree is a novel text mining system that performs competitively for the identification of gene-disease, drug-disease and drug-target associations. Our analyses show that mining only a small fraction of MEDLINE results in a large dataset of gene-disease associations, and only a small proportion of this dataset is actually recorded in curated resources (2%), raising several issues on data prioritization and curation. We propose that joint analysis of text mined data with data curated by experts appears as a suitable approach to both assess data quality and highlight novel and interesting information. 
Controlled vocabularies such as the Unified Medical Language System (UMLS®) and Medical Subject Headings (MeSH®) are widely used for biomedical natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, the standard terminology in such collections suffers from low usage in biomedical literature, e.g. only 13% of UMLS terms appear in MEDLINE®. We here propose an efficient and effective method for extracting noun phrases for biomedical semantic categories. The proposed approach utilizes simple linguistic patterns to select candidate noun phrases based on headwords, and a machine learning classifier is used to filter out noisy phrases. For experiments, three NLP rules were tested and manually evaluated by three annotators. Our approaches showed over 93% precision on average for the headwords, “gene”, “protein”, “disease”, “cell” and “cells”. Although biomedical terms in knowledge-rich resources may define semantic categories, variations of the controlled terms in literature are still difficult to identify. The method proposed here is an effort to narrow the gap between controlled vocabularies and the entities used in text. Our extraction method cannot completely eliminate manual evaluation, however a simple and automated solution with high precision performance provides a convenient way for enriching semantic categories by incorporating terms obtained from the literature. 
Few studies have investigated prognostic biomarkers of distant metastases of lung cancer. One of the central difficulties in identifying biomarkers from microarray data is the availability of only a small number of samples, which results overtraining. Recently obtained evidence reveals that epithelial–mesenchymal transition (EMT) of tumor cells causes metastasis, which is detrimental to patients’ survival. This work proposes a novel optimization approach to discovering EMT-related prognostic biomarkers to predict the distant metastasis of lung cancer using both microarray and survival data. This weighted objective function maximizes both the accuracy of prediction of distant metastasis and the area between the disease-free survival curves of the non-distant and distant metastases. Seventy-eight patients with lung cancer and a follow-up time of 120 months are used to identify a set of gene markers and an independent cohort of 26 patients is used to evaluate the identified biomarkers. The medical records of the 78 patients show a significant difference between the disease-free survival times of the 37 non-distant- and the 41 distant-metastasis patients. The experimental results thus obtained are as follows. 1) The use of disease-free survival curves can compensate for the shortcoming of insufficient samples and greatly increase the test accuracy by 11.10%; and 2) the support vector machine with a set of 17 transcripts, such as CCL16 and CDKN2AIP, can yield a leave-one-out cross-validation accuracy of 93.59%, a test accuracy of 76.92%, a large disease-free survival area of 74.81%, and a mean survival prediction error of 3.99 months. The identified putative biomarkers are examined using related studies and signaling pathways to reveal the potential effectiveness of the biomarkers in prospective confirmatory studies. The proposed new optimization approach to identifying prognostic biomarkers by combining multiple sources of data (microarray and survival) can facilitate the accurate selection of biomarkers that are most relevant to the disease while solving the problem of insufficient samples. 
Ontology-based enrichment analysis aids in the interpretation and understanding of large-scale biological data. Ontologies are hierarchies of biologically relevant groupings. Using ontology annotations, which link ontology classes to biological entities, enrichment analysis methods assess whether there is a significant over or under representation of entities for ontology classes. While many tools exist that run enrichment analysis for protein sets annotated with the Gene Ontology, there are only a few that can be used for small molecules enrichment analysis. We describe BiNChE, an enrichment analysis tool for small molecules based on the ChEBI Ontology. BiNChE displays an interactive graph that can be exported as a high-resolution image or in network formats. The tool provides plain, weighted and fragment analysis based on either the ChEBI Role Ontology or the ChEBI Structural Ontology. BiNChE aids in the exploration of large sets of small molecules produced within Metabolomics or other Systems Biology research contexts. The open-source tool provides easy and highly interactive web access to enrichment analysis with the ChEBI ontology tool and is additionally available as a standalone library. 
De novo transcriptome assembly of short transcribed fragments (transfrags) produced from sequencing-by-synthesis technologies often results in redundant datasets with differing levels of unassembled, partially assembled or mis-assembled transcripts. Post-assembly processing intended to reduce redundancy typically involves reassembly or clustering of assembled sequences. However, these approaches are mostly based on common word heuristics and often create clusters of biologically unrelated sequences, resulting in loss of unique transfrags annotations and propagation of mis-assemblies. Here, we propose a structured framework that consists of a few steps in pipeline architecture for Inferring Functionally Relevant Assembly-derived Transcripts (IFRAT). IFRAT combines 1) removal of identical subsequences, 2) error tolerant CDS prediction, 3) identification of coding potential, and 4) complements BLAST with a multiple domain architecture annotation that reduces non-specific domain annotation. We demonstrate that independent of the assembler, IFRAT selects bona fide transfrags (with CDS and coding potential) from the transcriptome assembly of a model organism without relying on post-assembly clustering or reassembly. The robustness of IFRAT is inferred on RNA-Seq data of Neurospora crassa assembled using de Bruijn graph-based assemblers, in single (Trinity and Oases-25) and multiple (Oases-Merge and additive or pooled) k-mer modes. Single k-mer assemblies contained fewer transfrags compared to the multiple k-mer assemblies. However, Trinity identified a comparable number of predicted coding sequence and gene loci to Oases pooled assembly. IFRAT selects bona fide transfrags representing over 94% of cumulative BLAST-derived functional annotations of the unfiltered assemblies. Between 4-6% are lost when orphan transfrags are excluded and this represents only a tiny fraction of annotation derived from functional transference by sequence similarity. The median length of bona fide transfrags ranged from 1.5kb (Trinity) to 2kb (Oases), which is consistent with the average coding sequence length in fungi. The fraction of transfrags that could be associated with gene ontology terms ranged from 33-50%, which is also high for domain based annotation. We showed that unselected transfrags were mostly truncated and represent sequences from intronic, untranslated (5′ and 3′) regions and non-coding gene loci. IFRAT simplifies post-assembly processing providing a reference transcriptome enriched with functionally relevant assembly-derived transcripts for non-model organism. 
The detection of bias due to cryptic population structure is an important step in the evaluation of findings of genetic association studies. The standard method of measuring this bias in a genetic association study is to compare the observed median association test statistic to the expected median test statistic. This ratio is inflated in the presence of cryptic population structure. However, inflation may also be caused by the properties of the association test itself particularly in the analysis of rare variants. We compared the properties of the three most commonly used association tests: the likelihood ratio test, the Wald test and the score test when testing rare variants for association using simulated data. We found evidence of inflation in the median test statistics of the likelihood ratio and score tests for tests of variants with less than 20 heterozygotes across the sample, regardless of the total sample size. The test statistics for the Wald test were under-inflated at the median for variants below the same minor allele frequency. In a genetic association study, if a substantial proportion of the genetic variants tested have rare minor allele frequencies, the properties of the association test may mask the presence or absence of bias due to population structure. The use of either the likelihood ratio test or the score test is likely to lead to inflation in the median test statistic in the absence of population structure. In contrast, the use of the Wald test is likely to result in under-inflation of the median test statistic which may mask the presence of population structure. 
The organization of the canonical code has intrigued researches since it was first described. If we consider all codes mapping the 64 codes into 20 amino acids and one stop codon, there are more than 1.51×1084 possible genetic codes. The main question related to the organization of the genetic code is why exactly the canonical code was selected among this huge number of possible genetic codes. Many researchers argue that the organization of the canonical code is a product of natural selection and that the code’s robustness against mutations would support this hypothesis. In order to investigate the natural selection hypothesis, some researches employ optimization algorithms to identify regions of the genetic code space where best codes, according to a given evaluation function, can be found (engineering approach). The optimization process uses only one objective to evaluate the codes, generally based on the robustness for an amino acid property. Only one objective is also employed in the statistical approach for the comparison of the canonical code with random codes. We propose a multiobjective approach where two or more objectives are considered simultaneously to evaluate the genetic codes. In order to test our hypothesis that the multiobjective approach is useful for the analysis of the genetic code adaptability, we implemented a multiobjective optimization algorithm where two objectives are simultaneously optimized. Using as objectives the robustness against mutation with the amino acids properties polar requirement (objective 1) and robustness with respect to hydropathy index or molecular volume (objective 2), we found solutions closer to the canonical genetic code in terms of robustness, when compared with the results using only one objective reported by other authors. Using more objectives, more optimal solutions are obtained and, as a consequence, more information can be used to investigate the adaptability of the genetic code. The multiobjective approach is also more natural, because more than one objective was adapted during the evolutionary process of the canonical genetic code. Our results suggest that the evaluation function employed to compare genetic codes should consider simultaneously more than one objective, in contrast to what has been done in the literature.
Genetic markers and maps are instrumental in quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping in segregating populations. The resolution of QTL localization depends on the number of informative recombinations in the population and how well they are tagged by markers. Larger populations and denser marker maps are better for detecting and locating QTLs. Marker maps that are initially too sparse can be saturated or derived de novo from high-throughput omics data, (e.g. gene expression, protein or metabolite abundance). If these molecular phenotypes are affected by genetic variation due to a major QTL they will show a clear multimodal distribution. Using this information, phenotypes can be converted into genetic markers. The Pheno2Geno tool uses mixture modeling to select phenotypes and transform them into genetic markers suitable for construction and/or saturation of a genetic map. Pheno2Geno excludes candidate genetic markers that show evidence for multiple possibly epistatically interacting QTL and/or interaction with the environment, in order to provide a set of robust markers for follow-up QTL mapping.We demonstrate the use of Pheno2Geno on gene expression data of 370,000 probes in 148 A. thaliana recombinant inbred lines. Pheno2Geno is able to saturate the existing genetic map, decreasing the average distance between markers from 7.1 cM to 0.89 cM, close to the theoretical limit of 0.68 cM (with 148 individuals we expect a recombination every 100/148=0.68 cM); this pinpointed almost all of the informative recombinations in the population. Conclusion: The Pheno2Geno package makes use of genome-wide molecular profiling and provides a tool for high-throughput de novo map construction and saturation of existing genetic maps. Processing of the showcase dataset takes less than 30 minutes on an average desktop PC. Pheno2Geno improves QTL mapping results at no additional laboratory cost and with minimum computational effort. Its results are formatted for direct use in R/qtl, the leading R package for QTL studies. Pheno2Geno is freely available on CRAN under “GNU GPL v3”. The Pheno2Geno package as well as the tutorial can also be found at:  
Motivation: Given a set of biallelic molecular markers, such as SNPs, with genotype values on a collection of plant, animal or human samples, the goal of quantitative genetic trait prediction is to predict the quantitative trait values by simultaneously modeling all marker effects. Quantitative genetic trait prediction is usually represented as linear regression models which require quantitative encodings for the genotypes: the three distinct genotype values, corresponding to one heterozygous and two homozygous alleles, are usually coded as integers, and manipulated algebraically in the model. Further, epistasis between multiple markers is modeled as multiplication between the markers: it is unclear that the regression model continues to be effective under this. In this work we investigate the effects of encodings to the quantitative genetic trait prediction problem. We first showed that different encodings lead to different prediction accuracies, in many test cases. We then proposed a data-driven encoding strategy, where we encode the genotypes according to their distribution in the phenotypes and we allow each marker to have different encodings. We show in our experiments that this encoding strategy is able to improve the performance of the genetic trait prediction method and it is more helpful for the oligogenic traits, whose values rely on a relatively small set of markers. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper that discusses the effects of encodings to the genetic trait prediction problem.
Although Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) is commonly used for classification, it may not be directly applied in genomics studies due to the large p, small n problem in these studies. Different versions of sparse LDA have been proposed to address this significant challenge. One implicit assumption of various LDA-based methods is that the covariance matrices are the same across different classes. However, rewiring of genetic networks (therefore different covariance matrices) across different diseases has been observed in many genomics studies, which suggests that LDA and its variations may be suboptimal for disease classifications. However, it is not clear whether considering differing genetic networks across diseases can improve classification in genomics studies. We propose a sparse version of Quadratic Discriminant Analysis (SQDA) to explicitly consider the differences of the genetic networks across diseases. Both simulation and real data analysis are performed to compare the performance of SQDA with six commonly used classification methods. SQDA provides more accurate classification results than other methods for both simulated and real data. Our method should prove useful for classification in genomics studies and other research settings, where covariances differ among classes.
Flux balance analysis is traditionally implemented to identify the maximum theoretical flux for some specified reaction and a single distribution of flux values for all the reactions present which achieve this maximum value. However it is well known that the uncertainty in reaction networks due to branches, cycles and experimental errors results in a large number of combinations of internal reaction fluxes which can achieve the same optimal flux value. In this work, we have modified the applied linear objective of flux balance analysis to include a poling penalty function, which pushes each new set of reaction fluxes away from previous solutions generated. Repeated poling-based flux balance analysis generates a sample of different solutions (a characteristic set), which represents all the possible functionality of the reaction network. Compared to existing sampling methods, for the purpose of generating a relatively “small” characteristic set, our new method is shown to obtain a higher coverage than competing methods under most conditions.The influence of the linear objective function on the sampling (the linear bias) constrains optimisation results to a subspace of optimal solutions all producing the same maximal fluxes. Visualisation of reaction fluxes plotted against each other in 2 dimensions with and without the linear bias indicates the existence of correlations between fluxes. This method of sampling is applied to the organism Actinobacillus succinogenes for the production of succinic acid from glycerol. A new method of sampling for the generation of different flux distributions (sets of individual fluxes satisfying constraints on the steady-state mass balances of intermediates) has been developed using a relatively simple modification of flux balance analysis to include a poling penalty function inside the resulting optimisation objective function. This new methodology can achieve a high coverage of the possible flux space and can be used with and without linear bias to show optimal versus sub-optimal solution spaces. Basic analysis of the Actinobacillus succinogenes system using sampling shows that in order to achieve the maximal succinic acid production CO2 must be taken into the system. Solutions involving release of CO2 all give sub-optimal succinic acid production. 
Barcode multiplexing is a key strategy for sharing the rising capacity of next-generation sequencing devices: Synthetic DNA tags, called barcodes, are attached to natural DNA fragments within the library preparation procedure. Different libraries, can individually be labeled with barcodes for a joint sequencing procedure. A post-processing step is needed to sort the sequencing data according to their origin, utilizing these DNA labels. The final separation step is called demultiplexing and is mainly determined by the characteristics of the DNA code words used as labels.Currently, we are facing two different strategies for barcoding: One is based on the Hamming distance, the other uses the edit metric to measure distances of code words. The theory of channel coding provides well-known code constructions for Hamming metric. They provide a large number of code words with variable lengths and maximal correction capability regarding substitution errors. However, some sequencing platforms are known to have exceptional high numbers of insertion or deletion errors. Barcodes based on the edit distance can take insertion and deletion errors into account in the decoding process. Unfortunately, there is no explicit code-construction known that gives optimal codes for edit metric. In the present work we focus on an entirely different perspective to obtain DNA barcodes. We consider a concatenated code construction, producing so-called watermark codes, which were first proposed by Davey and Mackay, to communicate via binary channels with synchronization errors. We adapt and extend the concepts of watermark codes to use them for DNA sequencing. Moreover, we provide an exemplary set of barcodes that are experimentally compatible with common next-generation sequencing platforms. Finally, a realistic simulation scenario is use to evaluate the proposed codes to show that the watermark concept is suitable for DNA sequencing applications. Conclusion: Our adaption of watermark codes enables the construction of barcodes that are capable of correcting substitutions, insertion and deletion errors. The presented approach has the advantage of not needing any markers or technical sequences to recover the position of the barcode in the sequencing reads, which poses a significant restriction with other approaches. 
In genome-wide studies, over-representation analysis (ORA) against a set of genes is an essential step for biological interpretation. Many gene annotation resources and software platforms for ORA have been proposed. Recently, Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) terms, which are annotations of PubMed documents, have been used for ORA. MeSH enables the extraction of broader meaning from the gene lists and is expected to become an exhaustive annotation resource for ORA. However, the existing MeSH ORA software platforms are still not sufficient for several reasons. In this work, we developed an original MeSH ORA framework composed of six types of R packages, including MeSH.db, MeSH.AOR.db, MeSH.PCR.db, the org.MeSH.XXX.db-type packages, MeSHDbi, and meshr. Using our framework, users can easily conduct MeSH ORA. By utilizing the enriched MeSH terms, related PubMed documents can be retrieved and saved on local machines within this framework. 
The need to create controlled vocabularies such as ontologies for knowledge organization and access has been widely recognized in various domains. Despite the indispensable need of thorough domain knowledge in ontology construction, most software tools for ontology construction are designed for knowledge engineers and not for domain experts to use. The differences in the opinions of different domain experts and in the terminology usages in source literature are rarely addressed by existing software. Methods: OTO software was developed based on the Agile principles. Through iterations of software release and user feedback, new features are added and existing features modified to make the tool more intuitive and efficient to use for small and large data sets. The software is open source and built in Java. Ontology Term Organizer (OTO; ) is a user-friendly, web-based, consensus-promoting, open source application for organizing domain terms by dragging and dropping terms to appropriate locations. The application is designed for users with specific domain knowledge such as biology but not in-depth ontology construction skills. Specifically OTO can be used to establish is_a, part_of, synonym, and order relationships among terms in any domain that reflects the terminology usage in source literature and based on multiple experts’ opinions. The organized terms may be fed into formal ontologies to boost their coverage. All datasets organized on OTO are publicly available. Conclusion: OTO has been used to organize the terms extracted from thirty volumes of Flora of North America and Flora of China combined, in addition to some smaller datasets of different taxon groups. User feedback indicates that the tool is efficient and user friendly. Being open source software, the application can be modified to fit varied term organization needs for different domains.
Many disease phenotypes are outcomes of the complicated interplay between multiple genes, and multiple phenotypes are affected by a single or multiple genotypes. Therefore, joint analysis of multiple phenotypes and multiple markers has been considered as an efficient strategy for genome-wide association analysis, and in this work we propose an omnibus family-based association test for the joint analysis of multiple genotypes and multiple phenotypes. The proposed test can be applied for both quantitative and dichotomous phenotypes, and it is robust under the presence of population substructure, as long as large-scale genomic data is available. Using simulated data, we showed that our method is statistically more efficient than the existing methods, and the practical relevance is illustrated by application of the approach to obesity-related phenotypes. The proposed method may be more statistically efficient than the existing methods. The application was developed in C++ and is available at the following URL: 
Gene Ontology (GO) has been used widely to study functional relationships between genes. The current semantic similarity measures rely only on GO annotations and GO structure. This limits the power of GO-based similarity because of the limited proportion of genes that are annotated to GO in most organisms. We introduce a novel approach called NETSIM (network-based similarity measure) that incorporates information from gene co-function networks in addition to using the GO structure and annotations. Using metabolic reaction maps of yeast, Arabidopsis, and human, we demonstrate that NETSIM can improve the accuracy of GO term similarities. We also demonstrate that NETSIM works well even for genomes with sparser gene annotation data. We applied NETSIM on large Arabidopsis gene families such as cytochrome P450 monooxygenases to group the members functionally and show that this grouping could facilitate functional characterization of genes in these families. Using NETSIM as an example, we demonstrated that the performance of a semantic similarity measure could be significantly improved after incorporating genome-specific information. NETSIM incorporates both GO annotations and gene co-function network data as a priori knowledge in the model. Therefore, functional similarities of GO terms that are not explicitly encoded in GO but are relevant in a taxon-specific manner become measurable when GO annotations are limited. Supplementary information and software are available at ~jinchen/NETSIM. 
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
In this meeting report, we give an overview of the talks, presentations and posters presented at the third European Symposium of the International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB) Student Council. The event was organized as a satellite meeting of the 13th European Conference for Computational Biology (ECCB) and took place in Strasbourg, France on September 6th, 2014.
The discovery and mapping of genomic variants is an essential step in most analysis done using sequencing reads. There are a number of mature software packages and associated pipelines that can identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with a high degree of concordance. However, the same cannot be said for tools that are used to identify the other types of variants. Indels represent the second most frequent class of variants in the human genome, after single nucleotide polymorphisms. The reliable detection of indels is still a challenging problem, especially for variants that are longer than a few bases. We have developed a set of algorithms and heuristics collectively called indelMINER to identify indels from whole genome resequencing datasets using paired-end reads. indelMINER uses a split-read approach to identify the precise breakpoints for indels of size less than a user specified threshold, and supplements that with a paired-end approach to identify larger variants that are frequently missed with the split-read approach. We use simulated and real datasets to show that an implementation of the algorithm performs favorably when compared to several existing tools. indelMINER can be used effectively to identify indels in whole-genome resequencing projects. The output is provided in the VCF format along with additional information about the variant, including information about its presence or absence in another sample. The source code and documentation for indelMINER can be freely downloaded from www.bx.psu.edu/miller_lab/indelMINER.tar.gz. 
In the last few years, the Non-negative Matrix Factorization(NMF) technique has gained a great interest among the Bioinformatics community, since it is able to extract interpretable parts from high-dimensional datasets. However, the computing time required to process large data matrices may become impractical, even for a parallel application running on a multiprocessors cluster.In this paper, we present NMF-mGPU, an efficient and easy-to-use implementation of the NMF algorithm that takes advantage of the high computing performance delivered by Graphics-Processing Units(GPUs). Driven by the ever-growing demands from the video-games industry, graphics cards usually provided in PCs and laptops have evolved from simple graphics-drawing platforms into high-performance programmable systems that can be used as coprocessors for linear-algebra operations. However, these devices may have a limited amount of on-board memory, which is not considered by other NMF implementations on GPU. NMF-mGPU is based on CUDA(Compute Unified Device Architecture), the NVIDIA’s framework for GPU computing. On devices with low memory available, large input matrices are blockwise transferred from the system’s main memory to the GPU’s memory, and processed accordingly. In addition, NMF-mGPU has been explicitly optimized for the different CUDA architectures. Finally, platforms with multiple GPUs can be synchronized through MPI(Message Passing Interface). In a four-GPU system, this implementation is about 120 times faster than a single conventional processor, and more than four times faster than a single GPU device (i.e., a super-linear speedup). Applications of GPUs in Bioinformatics are getting more and more attention due to their outstanding performance when compared to traditional processors. In addition, their relatively low price represents a highly cost-effective alternative to conventional clusters. In life sciences, this results in an excellent opportunity to facilitate the daily work of bioinformaticians that are trying to extract biological meaning out of hundreds of gigabytes of experimental information. NMF-mGPU can be used “out of the box” by researchers with little or no expertise in GPU programming in a variety of platforms, such as PCs, laptops, or high-end GPU clusters. NMF-mGPU is freely available at -cnb/bionmf-gpu.
Cancer progression is caused by the sequential accumulation of mutations, but not all orders of accumulation are equally likely. When the fixation of some mutations depends on the presence of previous ones, identifying restrictions in the order of accumulation of mutations can lead to the discovery of therapeutic targets and diagnostic markers. The purpose of this study is to conduct a comprehensive comparison of the performance of all available methods to identify these restrictions from cross-sectional data. I used simulated data sets (where the true restrictions are known) but, in contrast to previous work, I embedded restrictions within evolutionary models of tumor progression that included passengers (mutations not responsible for the development of cancer, known to be very common). This allowed me to assess, for the first time, the effects of having to filter out passengers, of sampling schemes (when, how, and how many samples), and of deviations from order restrictions. Poor choices of method, filtering, and sampling lead to large errors in all performance measures. Having to filter passengers lead to decreased performance, especially because true restrictions were missed. Overall, the best method for identifying order restrictions were Oncogenetic Trees, a fast and easy to use method that, although unable to recover dependencies of mutations on more than one mutation, showed good performance in most scenarios, superior to Conjunctive Bayesian Networks and Progression Networks. Single cell sampling provided no advantage, but sampling in the final stages of the disease vs. sampling at different stages had severe effects. Evolutionary model and deviations from order restrictions had major, and sometimes counterintuitive, interactions with other factors that affected performance. This paper provides practical recommendations for using these methods with experimental data. It also identifies key areas of future methodological work and, in particular, it shows that it is both possible and necessary to embed assumptions about order restrictions and the nature of driver status within evolutionary models of cancer progression to evaluate the performance of inferential approaches. 
Extensive studies have been carried out on Caenorhabditis elegans as a model organism to elucidate mechanisms of aging and the effects of perturbing known aging-related genes on lifespan and behavior. This research has generated large amounts of experimental data that is increasingly difficult to integrate and analyze with existing databases and domain knowledge. To address this challenge, we demonstrate a scalable and effective approach for automatic evidence gathering and evaluation that leverages existing experimental data and literature-curated facts to identify genes involved in aging and lifespan regulation in C. elegans. We developed a semantic knowledge base for aging by integrating data about C. elegans genes from WormBase with data about 2005 human and model organism genes from GenAge and 149 genes from GenDR, and with the Bio2RDF network of linked data for the life sciences. Using HyQue (a Semantic Web tool for hypothesis-based querying and evaluation) to interrogate this knowledge base, we examined 48,231 C. elegans genes for their role in modulating lifespan and aging. HyQue identified 24 novel but well-supported candidate aging-related genes for further experimental validation. We use semantic technologies to discover candidate aging genes whose effects on lifespan are not yet well understood. Our customized HyQue system, the aging research knowledge base it operates over, and HyQue evaluations of all C. elegans genes are freely available at  
RNA pseudoknots play important roles in many biological processes. Previous methods for comparative pseudoknot analysis mainly focus on simultaneous folding and alignment of RNA sequences. Little work has been done to align two known RNA secondary structures with pseudoknots taking into account both sequence and structure information of the two RNAs. In this article we present a novel method for aligning two known RNA secondary structures with pseudoknots. We adopt the partition function methodology to calculate the posterior log-odds scores of the alignments between bases or base pairs of the two RNAs with a dynamic programming algorithm. The posterior log-odds scores are then used to calculate the expected accuracy of an alignment between the RNAs. The goal is to find an optimal alignment with the maximum expected accuracy. We present a heuristic to achieve this goal. The performance of our method is investigated and compared with existing tools for RNA structure alignment. An extension of the method to multiple alignment of pseudoknot structures is also discussed. The method described here has been implemented in a tool named RKalign, which is freely accessible on the Internet. As more and more pseudoknots are revealed, collected and stored in public databases, we anticipate a tool like RKalign will play a significant role in data comparison, annotation, analysis, and retrieval in these databases. 
DAVID is the most popular tool for interpreting large lists of gene/proteins classically produced in high-throughput experiments. However, the use of DAVID website becomes difficult when analyzing multiple gene lists, for it does not provide an adequate visualization tool to show/compare multiple enrichment results in a concise and informative manner. Result: We implemented a new R-based graphical tool, BACA (Bubble chArt to Compare Annotations), which uses the DAVID web service for cross-comparing enrichment analysis results derived from multiple large gene lists. BACA is implemented in R and is freely available at the CRAN repository (-project.org/web/packages/BACA/). Conclusion: The package BACA allows R users to combine multiple annotation charts into one output graph by passing DAVID website. 
In this study, clustering was performed using a bitmap representation of HIV reverse transcriptase and protease sequences, to produce an unsupervised classification of HIV sequences. The classification will aid our understanding of the interactions between mutations and drug resistance. 10,229 HIV genomic sequences from the protease and reverse transcriptase regions of the pol gene and antiretroviral resistant related mutations represented in an 82-dimensional binary vector space were analyzed. A new cluster representation was proposed using an image inspired by microarray data, such that the rows in the image represented the protein sequences from the genotype data and the columns represented presence or absence of mutations in each protein position.The visualization of the clusters showed that some mutations frequently occur together and are probably related to an epistatic phenomenon. Conclusion: We described a methodology based on the application of a pattern recognition algorithm using binary data to suggest clusters of mutations that can easily be discriminated by cluster viewing schemes.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) genotypes have a distinct geographical distribution and influence disease progression and treatment outcomes. The purpose of this study was to investigate the distribution of HBV genotypes in Europe, the impact of mutation of different genotypes on HBV gene abnormalities, the features of CpG islands in each genotype and their potential role in epigenetic regulation. Of 383 HBV isolates from European patients, HBV genotypes A-G were identified, with the most frequent being genotype D (51.96%) in 12 countries, followed by A (39.16%) in 7 countries, and then E (3.66%), G (2.87%), B (1.57%), F (0.52%) and C (0.26%). A higher rate of mutant isolates were identified in those with genotype D (46.7%) followed by G (45.5%), and mutations were associated with structural and functional abnormalities of HBV genes. Conventional CpG island I was observed in genotypes A, B, C, D and E. Conventional islands II and III were detected in all A-G genotypes. A novel CpG island IV was found in genotypes A, D and E, and island V was only observed in genotype F. The A-G genotypes lacked the novel CpG island VI. “Split” CpG island I in genotypes D and E and “split” island II in genotypes A, D, E, F and G were observed. Two mutant isolates from genotype D and one from E were found to lack both CpG islands I and III. HBV genotypes A-G were identified in European patients. Structural and functional abnormalities of HBV genes were caused by mutations leading to the association of genotypes D and G with increased severity of liver disease. The distribution, length and genetic traits of CpG islands were different between genotypes and their biological and clinical significances warrant further study, which will help us better understand the potential role of CpG islands in epigenetic regulation of the HBV genome.
Binning environmental shotgun reads is one of the most fundamental tasks in metagenomic studies, in which mixed reads from different species or operational taxonomical units (OTUs) are separated into different groups. While dozens of binning methods are available, there is still room for improvement. We developed a novel taxonomy-independent approach called MBBC (Metagenomic Binning Based on Clustering) to cluster environmental shotgun reads, by considering k-mer frequency in reads and Markov properties of the inferred OTUs. Tested on twelve simulated datasets, MBBC reliably estimated the species number, the genome size, and the relative abundance of each species, independent of whether there are errors in reads. Tested on multiple experimental datasets, MBBC outperformed two state-of-the-art taxonomy-independent methods, in terms of the accuracy of the estimated species number, genome sizes, and percentages of correctly assigned reads, among other metrics. We have developed a novel method for binning metagenomic reads based on clustering. This method is demonstrated to reliably predict species numbers, genome sizes, relative species abundances, and k-mer coverage in simple datasets. Our method also has a high accuracy in read binning. The MBBC software is freely available at ~xiaoman/MBBC/MBBC.html. 
An important problem in computational biology is the automatic detection of protein families (groups of homologous sequences). Clustering sequences into families is at the heart of most comparative studies dealing with protein evolution, structure, and function. Many methods have been developed for this task, and they perform reasonably well (over 0.88 of F-measure) when grouping proteins with high sequence identity. However, for highly diverged proteins the performance of these methods can be much lower, mainly because a common evolutionary origin is not deduced directly from sequence similarity. To the best of our knowledge, a systematic evaluation of clustering methods over distant homologous proteins is still lacking. We performed a comparative assessment of four clustering algorithms: Markov Clustering (MCL), Transitive Clustering (TransClust), Spectral Clustering of Protein Sequences (SCPS), and High-Fidelity clustering of protein sequences (HiFix), considering several datasets with different levels of sequence similarity. Two types of similarity measures, required by the clustering sequence methods, were used to evaluate the performance of the algorithms: the standard measure obtained from sequence–sequence comparisons, and a novel measure based on profile-profile comparisons, used here for the first time. The results reveal low clustering performance for the highly divergent datasets when the standard measure was used. However, the novel measure based on profile-profile comparisons substantially improved the performance of the four methods, especially when very low sequence identity datasets were evaluated. We also performed a parameter optimization step to determine the best configuration for each clustering method. We found that TransClust clearly outperformed the other methods for most datasets. This work also provides guidelines for the practical application of clustering sequence methods aimed at detecting accurately groups of related protein sequences.
PAR-CLIP is a recently developed Next Generation Sequencing-based method enabling transcriptome-wide identification of interaction sites between RNA and RNA-binding proteins. The PAR-CLIP procedure induces specific base transitions that originate from sites of RNA-protein interactions and can therefore guide the identification of binding sites. However, additional sources of transitions, such as cell type-specific SNPs and sequencing errors, challenge the inference of binding sites and suitable statistical approaches are crucial to control false discovery rates. In addition, a highly resolved delineation of binding sites followed by an extensive downstream analysis is necessary for a comprehensive characterization of the protein binding preferences and the subsequent design of validation experiments. We present a statistical and computational framework for PAR-CLIP data analysis. We developed a sensitive transition-centered algorithm specifically designed to resolve protein binding sites at high resolution in PAR-CLIP data. Our method employes a Bayesian network approach to associate posterior log-odds with the observed transitions, providing an overall quantification of the confidence in RNA-protein interaction. We use published PAR-CLIP data to demonstrate the advantages of our approach, which compares favorably with alternative algorithms. Lastly, by integrating RNA-Seq data we compute conservative experimentally-based false discovery rates of our method and demonstrate the high precision of our strategy. Our method is implemented in the R package wavClusteR 2.0. The package is distributed under the GPL-2 license and is available from BioConductor at  
Structural comparison of protein-protein interfaces provides valuable insights into the functional relationship between proteins, which may not solely arise from shared evolutionary origin. A few methods that exist for such comparative studies have focused on structural models determined at atomic resolution, and may miss out interesting patterns present in large macromolecular complexes that are typically solved by low-resolution techniques. We developed a coarse-grained method, PCalign, to quantitatively evaluate physicochemical similarities between a given pair of protein-protein interfaces. This method uses an order-independent algorithm, geometric hashing, to superimpose the backbone atoms of a given pair of interfaces, and provides a normalized scoring function, PC-score, to account for the extent of overlap in terms of both geometric and chemical characteristics. We demonstrate that PCalign outperforms existing methods, and additionally facilitates comparative studies across models of different resolutions, which are not accommodated by existing methods. Furthermore, we illustrate potential application of our method to recognize interesting biological relationships masked by apparent lack of structural similarity. PCalign is a useful method in recognizing shared chemical and spatial patterns among protein-protein interfaces. It outperforms existing methods for high-quality data, and additionally facilitates comparison across structural models with different levels of details with proven robustness against noise. 
Microbiome studies incorporate next-generation sequencing to obtain profiles of microbial communities. Data generated from these experiments are high-dimensional with a rich correlation structure but modest sample sizes. A statistical model that utilizes these microbiome profiles to explain a clinical or biological endpoint needs to tackle high-dimensionality resulting from the very large space of variable configurations. Ensemble models are a class of approaches that can address high-dimensionality by aggregating information across large model spaces. Although such models are popular in fields as diverse as economics and genetics, their performance on microbiome data has been largely unexplored. We developed a simulation framework that accurately captures the constraints of experimental microbiome data. Using this setup, we systematically evaluated a selection of both frequentist and Bayesian regression modeling ensembles. These are represented by variants of stability selection in conjunction with elastic net and spike-and-slab Bayesian model averaging (BMA), respectively. BMA ensembles that explore a larger space of models relative to stability selection variants performed better and had lower variability across simulations. However, stability selection ensembles were able to match the performance of BMA in scenarios of low sparsity where several variables had large regression coefficients. Given a microbiome dataset of interest, we present a methodology to generate simulated data that closely mimics its characteristics in a manner that enables meaningful evaluation of analytical strategies. Our evaluation demonstrates that the largest ensembles yield the strongest performance on microbiome data with modest sample sizes and high-dimensional measurements. We also demonstrate the ability of these ensembles to identify microbiome signatures that are associated with opportunistic Candida albicans colonization during antibiotic exposure. As the focus of microbiome research evolves from pilot to translational studies, we anticipate that our strategy will aid investigators in making evaluation-based decisions for selecting appropriate analytical methods. 
A key challenge in understanding the molecular mechanisms that control gene regulation is the characterization of the specificity with which transcription factor proteins bind to specific DNA sequences. A number of computational approaches have been developed to examine these interactions, including simple mononucleotide and dinucleotide position weight matrix models. Here we develop a novel, unbiased computational algorithm, MARZ, that systematically analyzes all possible gapped matrices across a fixed number of nucleotides. In addition, to evaluate the ability of these matrix models to predict in vivo binding sites, we utilize a new scoring system and, in combination with established scoring methods and statistical analysis, test the performance of 32 different gapped matrices on the well characterized HUNCHBACK transcription factor in Drosophila. Our results indicate that in many cases gapped matrix models can outperform traditional models, but that the relative strength of the binding sites considered in the analysis can profoundly influence the predictive ability of specific models. 
Familial binding profiles (FBPs) represent the average binding specificity for a group of structurally related DNA-binding proteins. The construction of such profiles allows the classification of novel motifs based on similarity to known families, can help to reduce redundancy in motif databases and de novo prediction algorithms, and can provide valuable insights into the evolution of binding sites. Many current approaches to automated motif clustering rely on progressive tree-based techniques, and can suffer from so-called frozen sub-alignments, where motifs which are clustered early on in the process remain ‘locked’ in place despite the potential for better placement at a later stage. In order to avoid this scenario, we have developed a genetic-k-medoids approach which allows motifs to move freely between clusters at any point in the clustering process. We demonstrate the performance of our algorithm, GMACS, on multiple benchmark motif datasets, comparing results obtained with current leading approaches. The first dataset includes 355 position weight matrices from the TRANSFAC database and indicates that the k-mer frequency vector approach used in GMACS outperforms other motif comparison techniques. We then cluster a set of 79 motifs from the JASPAR database previously used in several motif clustering studies and demonstrate that GMACS can produce a higher number of structurally homogeneous clusters than other methods without the need for a large number of singletons. Finally, we show the robustness of our algorithm to noise on multiple synthetic datasets consisting of known motifs convolved with varying degrees of noise. Our proposed algorithm is generally applicable to any DNA or protein motifs, can produce highly stable and biologically meaningful clusters, and, by avoiding the problem of frozen sub-alignments, can provide improved results when compared with existing techniques on benchmark datasets. 
β-N-Acetylhexosaminidase (GH20) from the filamentous fungus Talaromyces flavus, previously identified as a prominent enzyme in the biosynthesis of modified glycosides, lacks a high resolution three-dimensional structure so far. Despite of high sequence identity to previously reported Aspergillus oryzae and Penicilluim oxalicum β-N-acetylhexosaminidases, this enzyme tolerates significantly better substrate modification. Understanding of key structural features, prediction of effective mutants and potential substrate characteristics prior to their synthesis are of general interest. Computational methods including homology modeling and molecular dynamics simulations were applied to shad light on the structure-activity relationship in the enzyme. Primary sequence analysis revealed some variable regions able to influence difference in substrate affinity of hexosaminidases. Moreover, docking in combination with consequent molecular dynamics simulations of C-6 modified glycosides enabled us to identify the structural features required for accommodation and processing of these bulky substrates in the active site of hexosaminidase from T. flavus. To access the reliability of predictions on basis of the reported model, all results were confronted with available experimental data that demonstrated the principal correctness of the predictions as well as the model. The main variable regions in β-N-acetylhexosaminidases determining difference in modified substrate affinity are located close to the active site entrance and engage two loops. Differences in primary sequence and the spatial arrangement of these loops and their interplay with active site amino acids, reflected by interaction energies and dynamics, account for the different catalytic activity and substrate specificity of the various fungal and bacterial β-N-acetylhexosaminidases. 
Pausing of DNA polymerase can indicate the presence of a DNA structure that differs from the canonical double-helix. Here we detail a method to investigate how polymerase pausing in the Pacific Biosciences sequencer reads can be related to DNA sequences. The Pacific Biosciences sequencer uses optics to view a polymerase and its interaction with a single DNA molecule in real-time, offering a unique way to detect potential alternative DNA structures. We have developed a new way to examine polymerase kinetics data and relate it to the DNA sequence by using a wavelet transform of read information from the sequencer. We use this method to examine how polymerase kinetics are related to nucleotide base composition. We then examine tandem repeat sequences known for their ability to form different DNA structures: (CGG)n and (CG)n repeats which can, respectively, form G-quadruplex DNA and Z-DNA. We find pausing around the (CGG)n repeat that may indicate the presence of G-quadruplexes in some of the sequencer reads. The (CG)n repeat does not appear to cause polymerase pausing, but its kinetics signature nevertheless suggests the possibility that alternative nucleotide conformations may sometimes be present. Conclusion: We discuss the implications of using our method to discover DNA sequences capable of forming alternative structures. The analyses presented here can be reproduced on any Pacific Biosciences kinetics data for any DNA pattern of interest using an R package that we have made publicly available.
Many ontologies have been developed in biology and these ontologies increasingly contain large volumes of formalized knowledge commonly expressed in the Web Ontology Language (OWL). Computational access to the knowledge contained within these ontologies relies on the use of automated reasoning. We have developed the Aber-OWL infrastructure that provides reasoning services for bio-ontologies. Aber-OWL consists of an ontology repository, a set of web services and web interfaces that enable ontology-based semantic access to biological data and literature. Aber-OWL is freely available at -owl.net. Aber-OWL provides a framework for automatically accessing information that is annotated with ontologies or contains terms used to label classes in ontologies. When using Aber-OWL, access to ontologies and data annotated with them is not merely based on class names or identifiers but rather on the knowledge the ontologies contain and the inferences that can be drawn from it.
Two-dimensional differential gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) provides a powerful technique to separate proteins on their isoelectric point and apparent molecular mass and quantify changes in protein expression. Abundantly available proteins in spots can be identified using mass spectrometry-based approaches. However, identification is often not possible for low-abundant proteins. We present a novel computational approach to prioritize candidate proteins for unidentified spots. Our approach exploits noisy information on the isoelectric point and apparent molecular mass of a protein spot in combination with functional similarities of candidate proteins to already identified proteins to select and rank candidates. We evaluated our method on a 2D-DIGE dataset comparing protein expression in uninfected and HIV-1 infected T-cells. Using leave-one-out cross-validation, we show that the true-positive rate for the top-5 ranked proteins is 43.8%. Our approach shows good performance on a 2D-DIGE dataset comparing protein expression in uninfected and HIV-1 infected T-cells. We expect our method to be highly useful in (re-)mining other 2D-DIGE experiments in which especially the low-abundant protein spots remain to be identified. 
The determination of protein structures satisfying distance constraints is an important problem in structural biology. Whereas the most common method currently employed is simulated annealing, there have been other methods previously proposed in the literature. Most of them, however, are designed to find one solution only. In order to explore exhaustively the feasible conformational space, we propose here an interval Branch-and-Prune algorithm (iBP) to solve the Distance Geometry Problem (DGP) associated to protein structure determination. This algorithm is based on a discretization of the problem obtained by recursively constructing a search space having the structure of a tree, and by verifying whether the generated atomic positions are feasible or not by making use of pruning devices. The pruning devices used here are directly related to features of protein conformations. We described the new algorithm iBP to generate protein conformations satisfying distance constraints, that would potentially allows a systematic exploration of the conformational space. The algorithm iBP has been applied on three α-helical peptides.
Short sequence mapping methods for Next Generation Sequencing consist on a combination of seeding techniques followed by local alignment based on dynamic programming approaches. Most seeding algorithms are based on backward search alignment, using the Burrows Wheeler Transform, the Ferragina and Manzini Index or Suffix Arrays. All these backward search algorithms have excellent performance, but their computational cost highly increases when allowing errors. In this paper, we discuss an inexact mapping algorithm based on pruning strategies for search tree exploration over genomic data. The proposed algorithm achieves a 13x speed-up over similar algorithms when allowing 6 base errors, including insertions, deletions and mismatches. This algorithm can deal with 400 bps reads with up to 9 errors in a high quality Illumina dataset. In this example, the algorithm works as a preprocessor that reduces by 55% the number of reads to be aligned. Depending on the aligner the overall execution time is reduced between 20–40%. Although not intended as a complete sequence mapping tool, the proposed algorithm could be used as a preprocessing step to modern sequence mappers. This step significantly reduces the number reads to be aligned, accelerating overall alignment time. Furthermore, this algorithm could be used for accelerating the seeding step of already available sequence mappers. In addition, an out-of-core index has been implemented for working with large genomes on systems without expensive memory configurations.
Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is rapidly becoming common practice in clinical diagnostics and cancer research. In addition to the detection of single nucleotide variants (SNVs), information on copy number variants (CNVs) is of great interest. Several algorithms exist to detect CNVs by analyzing whole genome sequencing data or data from samples enriched by hybridization-capture. PCR-enriched amplicon-sequencing data have special characteristics that have been taken into account by only one publicly available algorithm so far. We describe a new algorithm named quandico to detect copy number differences based on NGS data generated following PCR-enrichment. A weighted t-test statistic was applied to calculate probabilities (p-values) of copy number changes. We assessed the performance of the method using sequencing reads generated from reference DNA with known CNVs, and we were able to detect these variants with 98.6% sensitivity and 98.5% specificity which is significantly better than another recently described method for amplicon sequencing. The source code (R-package) of quandico is licensed under the GPLv3 and it is available at  Conclusion: We demonstrated that our new algorithm is suitable to call copy number changes using data from PCR-enriched samples with high sensitivity and specificity even for single copy differences. 
Arguably the most basic step in the analysis of next generation sequencing data (NGS) involves the extraction of mappable reads from the raw reads produced by sequencing instruments. The presence of barcodes, adaptors and artifacts subject to sequencing errors makes this step non-trivial. Here I present TagDust2, a generic approach utilizing a library of hidden Markov models (HMM) to accurately extract reads from a wide array of possible read architectures. TagDust2 extracts more reads of higher quality compared to other approaches. Processing of multiplexed single, paired end and libraries containing unique molecular identifiers is fully supported. Two additional post processing steps are included to exclude known contaminants and filter out low complexity sequences. Finally, TagDust2 can automatically detect the library type of sequenced data from a predefined selection. Conclusion: Taken together TagDust2 is a feature rich, flexible and adaptive solution to go from raw to mappable NGS reads in a single step. The ability to recognize and record the contents of raw reads will help to automate and demystify the initial, and often poorly documented, steps in NGS data analysis pipelines. TagDust2 is freely available at:  
The function of an RNA in cellular processes is directly related to its structure. The free energy of RNA structure in another important key to its function as only some structures with a specific level of free energy can take part in cellular reactions. Therefore, to perform a specific function, a particular RNA structure with specific level of free energy is required. For a given RNA structure, the goal of the RNA design problem is to design an RNA sequence that folds into the given structure. To mimic the biological features of RNA sequences and structures, some sequence and energy constraints should be considered in designing RNA. Although the level of free energy is important, it is not considered in the available approaches for RNA design problem. In this paper, we present a new version of our evolutionary algorithm for RNA design problem, entitled ERD, and extend it to handle some sequence and energy constraints. In the sequence constraints, one can restrict sequence positions to a fixed nucleotide or to a subset of nucleotides. As for the energy constraint, one can specify an interval for the free energy ranges of the designed sequences. We compare our algorithm with INFO-RNA, MODENA, NUPACK, and RNAiFold approaches for some artificial and natural RNA secondary structures and constraints. The results indicate that our algorithm outperforms the other mentioned approaches in terms of accuracy, speedup, divergency, nucleotides distribution, and similarity to the natural RNA sequences. Particularly, the designed RNA sequences in our method are much more reliable and similar to the natural counterparts. The generated sequences are more diverse and they have closer nucleotides distribution to the natural one. The ERD tool and web server are freely available at -cons/.
Proteins are composed of domains, protein segments that fold independently from the rest of the protein and have a specific function. During evolution the arrangement of domains can change: domains are gained, lost or their order is rearranged. To facilitate the analysis of these changes we propose the use of multiple domain alignments. We developed an alignment program, called MDAT, which aligns multiple domain arrangements. MDAT extends earlier programs which perform pairwise alignments of domain arrangements. MDAT uses a domain similarity matrix to score domain pairs and aligns the domain arrangements using a consistency supported progressive alignment method. Conclusion: MDAT will be useful for analysing changes in domain arrangements within and between protein families and will thus provide valuable insights into the evolution of proteins and their domains. MDAT is coded in C++, and the source code is freely available for download at  
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
This report summarizes the scientific content and activities of the annual symposium organized by the Student Council of the International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB), held in conjunction with the Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology (ISMB) conference in Boston, USA, on July 11th, 2014.
N-linked protein glycosylation plays an important role in various biological processes, including protein folding and trafficking, and cell adhesion and signaling. The acquisition of a novel N-glycosylation site may have significant effect on protein structure and function, and therefore, on the phenotype. We analyzed the human glycoproteome data set (2,534 N-glycosylation sites in 1,027 proteins) and identified 112 novel N-glycosylation sites in 91 proteins that arose in the human lineage since the last common ancestor of Euarchonta (primates and treeshrews). Three of them, Asn-196 in adipocyte plasma membrane-associated protein (APMAP), Asn-91 in cluster of differentiation 166 (CD166/ALCAM), and Asn-76 in thyroglobulin, are human-specific. Molecular evolutionary analysis suggested that these sites were under positive selection during human evolution. Notably, the Asn-76 of thyroglobulin might be involved in the increased production of thyroid hormones in humans, especially thyroxine (T4), because the removal of the glycan moiety from this site was reported to result in a significant decrease in T4 production. We propose that the novel N-glycosylation sites described in this study may be useful candidates for functional analyses to identify innovative genetic modifications for beneficial phenotypes acquired in the human lineage. 
Scanning force microscopy (SFM) allows direct, rapid and high-resolution visualization of single molecular complexes; irregular shapes and differences in sizes are immediately revealed by the scanning tip in three-dimensional images. However, high-throughput analysis of SFM data is limited by the lack of versatile software tools accessible to SFM users. Most existing SFM software tools are aimed at broad general use: from material-surface analysis to visualization of biomolecules. We present SFMetrics as a metrology toolbox for SFM, specifically aimed at biomolecules like DNA and proteins, which features (a) semi-automatic high-throughput analysis of individual molecules; (b) ease of use working within MATLAB environment or as a stand-alone application; (c) compatibility with MultiMode (Bruker), NanoWizard (JPK instruments), Asylum (Asylum research), ASCII, and TIFF files, that can be adjusted with minor modifications to other formats. Conclusion: Assembled in a single user interface, SFMetrics serves as a semi-automatic analysis tool capable of measuring several geometrical properties (length, volume and angles) from DNA and protein complexes, but is also applicable to other samples with irregular shapes. 
microRNAs (miRNAs) play a vital role in development, oncogenesis, and apoptosis by binding to mRNAs to regulate the posttranscriptional level of coding genes in mammals, plants, and insects. Recent studies have demonstrated that the expression of viral miRNAs is associated with the ability of the virus to infect a host. Identifying potential viral miRNAs from experimental sequence data is valuable for deciphering virus-host interactions. Thus far, a specific predictive model for viral miRNA identification has yet to be developed. Methods and results: Here, we present ViralmiR for identifying viral miRNA precursors on the basis of sequencing and structural information. We collected 263 experimentally validated miRNA precursors (pre-miRNAs) from 26 virus species and generated sequencing fragments from virus and human genomes as the negative dataset. Support vector machine and random forest models were established using 54 features from RNA sequences and secondary structural information. The results show that ViralmiR achieved a balanced accuracy higher than 83%, which is superior to that of previously developed tools for identifying pre-miRNAs. The easy-to-use ViralmiR web interface has been provided as a helpful resource for researchers to use in analyzing and deciphering virus-host interactions. The web interface of ViralmiR can be accessed at 
Photosynthetic proteins (PSPs) greatly differ in their structure and function as they are involved in numerous subprocesses that take place inside an organelle called a chloroplast. Few studies predict PSPs from sequences due to their high variety of sequences and structues. This work aims to predict and characterize PSPs by establishing the datasets of PSP and non-PSP sequences and developing prediction methods. A novel bioinformatics method of predicting and characterizing PSPs based on scoring card method (SCMPSP) was used. First, a dataset consisting of 649 PSPs was established by using a Gene Ontology term GO:0015979 and 649 non-PSPs from the SwissProt database with sequence identity <= 25%.- Several prediction methods are presented based on support vector machine (SVM), decision tree J48, Bayes, BLAST, and SCM. The SVM method using dipeptide features-performed well and yielded - a test accuracy of 72.31%. The SCMPSP method uses the estimated propensity scores of 400 dipeptides - as PSPs and has a test accuracy of 71.54%, which is comparable to that of the SVM method. The derived propensity scores of 20 amino acids were further used to identify informative physicochemical properties for characterizing PSPs. The analytical results reveal the following four characteristics of PSPs: 1) PSPs favour hydrophobic side chain amino acids; 2) PSPs are composed of the amino acids prone to form helices in membrane environments; 3) PSPs have low interaction with water; and 4) PSPs prefer to be composed of the amino acids of electron-reactive side chains. The SCMPSP method not only estimates the propensity of a sequence to be PSPs, it also discovers characteristics that further improve understanding of PSPs. The SCMPSP source code and the datasets used in this study are available at 
Characterizing the interface residues will help shed light on protein-protein interactions, which are involved in many important biological processes. Many studies focus on characterizing sequence or structure features of protein interfaces, but there are few studies characterizing the dynamics of interfaces. Therefore, we would like to know whether there is any specific dynamics pattern in the protein-protein interaction interfaces. Thermal fluctuation is an important dynamical property for a residue, and could be quickly estimated by local packing density without large computation since studies have showen closely relationship between these two properties. Therefore, we divided surface of an unbound subunit (free protein subunits before they are involved in forming the protein complexes) into several separate regions, and compared their average thermal fluctuations of different regions in order to characterize the dynamics pattern in unbound protein-protein interaction interfaces. We used weighted contact numbers (WCN), a parameter-free method to quantify packing density, to estimate the thermal fluctuations of residues in the interfaces. By analyzing the WCN distributions of interfaces in unbound subunits from 1394 non-homologous protein complexes, we show that the residues in the central regions of interfaces have higher packing density (i.e. more rigid); on the other hand, residues surrounding the central regions have smaller packing density (i.e. more flexible). The distinct distributions of packing density, suggesting distinct thermal fluctuation, reveals specific dynamics pattern in the interface of unbound protein subunits. We found general trend that the unbound protein-protein interaction interfaces consist of rigid residues in the central regions, which are surrounded by flexible residues. This finding suggests that the dynamics might be one of the important features for the formation of protein complexes.
With the development of various high throughput technologies and analysis methods, researchers can study different aspects of a biological phenomenon simultaneously or one aspect repeatedly with different experimental techniques and analysis methods. The output from each study is a rank list of components of interest. Aggregation of the rank lists of components, such as proteins, genes and single nucleotide variants (SNV), produced by these experiments has been proven to be helpful in both filtering the noise and bringing forth a more complete understanding of the biological problems. Current available rank aggregation methods do not consider the network information that has been observed to provide vital contributions in many data integration studies. We developed network tuned rank aggregation methods incorporating network information and demonstrated its superior performance over aggregation methods without network information.The methods are tested on predicting the Gene Ontology function of yeast proteins. We validate the methods using combinations of three gene expression data sets and three protein interaction networks as well as an integrated network by combining the three networks. Results show that the aggregated rank lists are more meaningful if protein interaction network is incorporated. Among the methods compared, CGI_RRA and CGI_Endeavour, which integrate rank lists with networks using CGI [1] followed by rank aggregation using either robust rank aggregation (RRA) [2] or Endeavour [3] perform the best. Finally, we use the methods to locate target genes of transcription factors.
The prevalence of type 2 diabetes is increasing at an alarming rate. Various complications are associated with type 2 diabetes, with diabetic nephropathy being the leading cause of renal failure among diabetics. Often, when patients are diagnosed with diabetic nephropathy, their renal functions have already been significantly damaged. Therefore, a risk prediction tool may be beneficial for the implementation of early treatment and prevention. In the present study, we developed a decision tree-based model integrating genetic and clinical features in a gender-specific classification for the identification of diabetic nephropathy among type 2 diabetic patients. Clinical and genotyping data were obtained from a previous genetic association study involving 345 type 2 diabetic patients (185 with diabetic nephropathy and 160 without diabetic nephropathy). Using a five-fold cross-validation approach, the performance of using clinical or genetic features alone in various classifiers (decision tree, random forest, Naïve Bayes, and support vector machine) was compared with that of utilizing a combination of attributes. The inclusion of genetic features and the implementation of an additional gender-based rule yielded better classification results. The current model supports the notion that genes and gender are contributing factors of diabetic nephropathy. Further refinement of the proposed approach has the potential to facilitate the early identification of diabetic nephropathy and the development of more efficient treatment in a clinical setting.
With the recent development of microarray and high-throughput sequencing (HTS) technologies, a number of studies have revealed catalogs of copy number variants (CNVs) and their association with phenotypes and complex traits. In parallel, a number of approaches to predict CNV regions and genotypes are proposed for both microarray and HTS data. However, only a few approaches focus on haplotyping of CNV loci. We propose a novel approach to infer copy unit alleles and their numbers in each sample simultaneously from population-scale HTS data by variational Bayesian inference on a generative probabilistic model inspired by latent Dirichlet allocation, which is a well studied model for document classification problems. In simulation studies, we evaluated concordance between inferred and true copy unit alleles for lower-, middle-, and higher-copy number dataset, in which precision and recall were ≥ 0.9 for data with mean coverage ≥ 10× per copy unit. We also applied the approach to HTS data of 1123 samples at highly variable salivary amylase gene locus and a pseudogene locus, and confirmed consistency of the estimated alleles within samples belonging to a trio of CEPH/Utah pedigree 1463 with 11 offspring. Our proposed approach enables detailed analysis of copy number variations, such as association study between copy unit alleles and phenotypes or biological features including human diseases.
Overlapping transcription constitutes a common mechanism for regulating gene expression. A major limitation of the overlapping transcription assays is the lack of high throughput expression data. We developed a new tool (IAOseq) that is based on reads distributions along the transcribed regions to identify the expression levels of overlapping genes from standard RNA-seq data. Compared with five commonly used quantification methods, IAOseq showed better performance in the estimation accuracy of overlapping transcription levels. For the same strand overlapping transcription, currently existing high-throughput methods are rarely available to distinguish which strand was present in the original mRNA template. The IAOseq results showed that the commonly used methods gave an average of 1.6 fold overestimation of the expression levels of same strand overlapping genes. This work provides a useful tool for mining overlapping transcription levels from standard RNA-seq libraries. IAOseq could be used to help us understand the complex regulatory mechanism mediated by overlapping transcripts. IAOseq is freely available at 
In modern paired-end sequencing protocols short DNA fragments lead to adapter-appended reads. Current paired-end adapter removal approaches trim adapter by scanning the fragment of adapter on the 3' end of the reads, which are not competent in some applications. Here, we propose a fast and highly accurate adapter-trimming algorithm, PEAT, designed specifically for paired-end sequencing. PEAT requires no a priori adaptor sequence, which is convenient for large-scale meta-analyses. We assessed the performance of PEAT with many adapter trimmers in both simulated and real life paired-end sequencing libraries. The importance of adapter trimming was exemplified by the influence of the downstream analyses on RNA-seq, ChIP-seq and MNase-seq. Several useful guidelines of applying adapter trimmers with aligners were suggested. PEAT can be easily included in the routine paired-end sequencing pipeline. The executable binaries and the standalone C++ source code package of PEAT are freely available online.
In eukaryotes, ubiquitin-conjugation is an important mechanism underlying proteasome-mediated degradation of proteins, and as such, plays an essential role in the regulation of many cellular processes. In the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, E3 ligases play important roles by recognizing a specific protein substrate and catalyzing the attachment of ubiquitin to a lysine (K) residue. As more and more experimental data on ubiquitin conjugation sites become available, it becomes possible to develop prediction models that can be scaled to big data. However, no development that focuses on the investigation of ubiquitinated substrate specificities has existed. Herein, we present an approach that exploits an iteratively statistical method to identify ubiquitin conjugation sites with substrate site specificities. In this investigation, totally 6259 experimentally validated ubiquitinated proteins were obtained from dbPTM. After having filtered out homologous fragments with 40% sequence identity, the training data set contained 2658 ubiquitination sites (positive data) and 5532 non-ubiquitinated sites (negative data). Due to the difficulty in characterizing the substrate site specificities of E3 ligases by conventional sequence logo analysis, a recursively statistical method has been applied to obtain significant conserved motifs. The profile hidden Markov model (profile HMM) was adopted to construct the predictive models learned from the identified substrate motifs. A five-fold cross validation was then used to evaluate the predictive model, achieving sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 73.07%, 65.46%, and 67.93%, respectively. Additionally, an independent testing set, completely blind to the training data of the predictive model, was used to demonstrate that the proposed method could provide a promising accuracy (76.13%) and outperform other ubiquitination site prediction tool. Conclusion: A case study demonstrated the effectiveness of the characterized substrate motifs for identifying ubiquitination sites. The proposed method presents a practical means of preliminary analysis and greatly diminishes the total number of potential targets required for further experimental confirmation. This method may help unravel their mechanisms and roles in E3 recognition and ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation.
N-terminal domains of BVU_4064 and BF1687 proteins from Bacteroides vulgatus and Bacteroides fragilis respectively are members of the Pfam family PF12985 (DUF3869). Proteins containing a domain from this family can be found in most Bacteroides species and, in large numbers, in all human gut microbiome samples. Both BVU_4064 and BF1687 proteins have a consensus lipobox motif implying they are anchored to the membrane, but their functions are otherwise unknown. The C-terminal half of BVU_4064 is assigned to protein family PF12986 (DUF3870); the equivalent part of BF1687 was unclassified. Crystal structures of both BVU_4064 and BF1687 proteins, solved at the JCSG center, show strikingly similar three-dimensional structures. The main difference between the two is that the two domains in the BVU_4064 protein are connected by a short linker, as opposed to a longer insertion made of 4 helices placed linearly along with a strand that is added to the C-terminal domain in the BF1687 protein. The N-terminal domain in both proteins, corresponding to the PF12985 (DUF3869) domain is a β–sandwich with pre-albumin-like fold, found in many proteins belonging to the Transthyretin clan of Pfam. The structures of C-terminal domains of both proteins, corresponding to the PF12986 (DUF3870) domain in BVU_4064 protein and an unclassified domain in the BF1687 protein, show significant structural similarity to bacterial pore-forming toxins. A helix in this domain is in an analogous position to a loop connecting the second and third strands in the toxin structures, where this loop is implicated to play a role in the toxin insertion into the host cell membrane. The same helix also points to the groove between the N- and C-terminal domains that are loosely held together by hydrophobic and hydrogen bond interactions. The presence of several conserved residues in this region together with these structural determinants could make it a functionally important region in these proteins. Structural analysis of BVU_4064 and BF1687 points to possible roles in mediating multiple interactions on the cell-surface/extracellular matrix. In particular the N-terminal domain could be involved in adhesive interactions, the C-terminal domain and the inter-domain groove in lipid or carbohydrate interactions. 
Genome-wide expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) studies have emerged as a powerful tool to understand the genetic basis of gene expression and complex traits. The traditional eQTL methods focus on testing the associations between individual single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and gene expression traits. A major drawback of this approach is that it cannot model the joint effect of a set of SNPs on a set of genes, which may correspond to hidden biological pathways. We introduce a new approach to identify novel group-wise associations between sets of SNPs and sets of genes. Such associations are captured by hidden variables connecting SNPs and genes. Our model is a linear-Gaussian model and uses two types of hidden variables. One captures the set associations between SNPs and genes, and the other captures confounders. We develop an efficient optimization procedure which makes this approach suitable for large scale studies. Extensive experimental evaluations on both simulated and real datasets demonstrate that the proposed methods can effectively capture both individual and group-wise signals that cannot be identified by the state-of-the-art eQTL mapping methods. Considering group-wise associations significantly improves the accuracy of eQTL mapping, and the successful multi-layer regression model opens a new approach to understand how multiple SNPs interact with each other to jointly affect the expression level of a group of genes. 
Yersinia is a Gram-negative bacteria that includes serious pathogens such as the Yersinia pestis, which causes plague, Yersinia pseudotuberculosis, Yersinia enterocolitica. The remaining species are generally considered non-pathogenic to humans, although there is evidence that at least some of these species can cause occasional infections using distinct mechanisms from the more pathogenic species. With the advances in sequencing technologies, many genomes of Yersinia have been sequenced. However, there is currently no specialized platform to hold the rapidly-growing Yersinia genomic data and to provide analysis tools particularly for comparative analyses, which are required to provide improved insights into their biology, evolution and pathogenicity. Description: To facilitate the ongoing and future research of Yersinia, especially those generally considered non-pathogenic species, a well-defined repository and analysis platform is needed to hold the Yersinia genomic data and analysis tools for the Yersinia research community. Hence, we have developed the YersiniaBase, a robust and user-friendly Yersinia resource and analysis platform for the analysis of Yersinia genomic data. YersiniaBase has a total of twelve species and 232 genome sequences, of which the majority are Yersinia pestis. In order to smooth the process of searching genomic data in a large database, we implemented an Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX)-based real-time searching system in YersiniaBase. Besides incorporating existing tools, which include JavaScript-based genome browser (JBrowse) and Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST), YersiniaBase also has in-house developed tools: (1) Pairwise Genome Comparison tool (PGC) for comparing two user-selected genomes; (2) Pathogenomics Profiling Tool (PathoProT) for comparative pathogenomics analysis of Yersinia genomes; (3) YersiniaTree for constructing phylogenetic tree of Yersinia. We ran analyses based on the tools and genomic data in YersiniaBase and the preliminary results showed differences in virulence genes found in Yersinia pestis and Yersinia pseudotuberculosis compared to other Yersinia species, and differences between Yersinia enterocolitica subsp. enterocolitica and Yersinia enterocolitica subsp. palearctica. YersiniaBase offers free access to wide range of genomic data and analysis tools for the analysis of Yersinia. YersiniaBase can be accessed at  
Protein function prediction is to assign biological or biochemical functions to proteins, and it is a challenging computational problem characterized by several factors: (1) the number of function labels (annotations) is large; (2) a protein may be associated with multiple labels; (3) the function labels are structured in a hierarchy; and (4) the labels are incomplete. Current predictive models often assume that the labels of the labeled proteins are complete, i.e. no label is missing. But in real scenarios, we may be aware of only some hierarchical labels of a protein, and we may not know whether additional ones are actually present. The scenario of incomplete hierarchical labels, a challenging and practical problem, is seldom studied in protein function prediction. In this paper, we propose an algorithm to Predict protein functions using Incomplete hierarchical LabeLs (PILL in short). PILL takes into account the hierarchical and the flat taxonomy similarity between function labels, and defines a Combined Similarity (ComSim) to measure the correlation between labels. PILL estimates the missing labels for a protein based on ComSim and the known labels of the protein, and uses a regularization to exploit the interactions between proteins for function prediction. PILL is shown to outperform other related techniques in replenishing the missing labels and in predicting the functions of completely unlabeled proteins on publicly available PPI datasets annotated with MIPS Functional Catalogue and Gene Ontology labels. Conclusion: The empirical study shows that it is important to consider the incomplete annotation for protein function prediction. The proposed method (PILL) can serve as a valuable tool for protein function prediction using incomplete labels. The Matlab code of PILL is available upon request. 
The physical interactions between proteins constitute the basis of protein quaternary structures. They dominate many biological processes in living cells. Deciphering the structural features of interacting proteins is essential to understand their cellular functions. Similar to the space of protein tertiary structures in which discrete patterns are clearly observed on fold or sub-fold motif levels, it has been found that the space of protein quaternary structures is highly degenerate due to the packing of compact secondary structure elements at interfaces. Therefore, it is necessary to further decompose the protein quaternary structural space into a more local representation. Here we constructed an interface fragment pair library from the current structure database of protein complexes. After structural-based clustering, we found that more than 90% of these interface fragment pairs can be represented by a limited number of highly abundant motifs. These motifs were further used to guide complex assembly. A large-scale benchmark test shows that the native-like binding is highly likely in the structural ensemble of modeled protein complexes that were built through the library. Our study therefore presents supportive evidences that the space of protein quaternary structures can be represented by the combination of a small set of secondary-structure-based packing at binding interfaces. Finally, after future improvements such as adding sequence profiles, we expect this new library will be useful to predict structures of unknown protein-protein interactions. 
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is widely recognized for playing a central role in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. Although APP is expressed in several tissues outside the human central nervous system, the functions of APP and its family members in other tissues are still poorly understood. APP is involved in several biological functions which might be potentially important for male fertility, such as cell adhesion, cell motility, signaling, and apoptosis. Furthermore, APP superfamily members are known to be associated with fertility. Knowledge on the protein networks of APP in human testis and spermatozoa will shed light on the function of APP in the male reproductive system. We performed a Yeast Two-Hybrid screen and a database search to study the interaction network of APP in human testis and sperm. To gain insights into the role of APP superfamily members in fertility, the study was extended to APP-like protein 2 (APLP2). We analyzed several topological properties of the APP interaction network and the biological and physiological properties of the proteins in the APP interaction network were also specified by gene ontologyand pathways analyses. We classified significant features related to the human male reproduction for the APP interacting proteins and identified modules of proteins with similar functional roles which may show cooperative behavior for male fertility. The present work provides the first report on the APP interactome in human testis. Our approach allowed the identification of novel interactions and recognition of key APP interacting proteins for male reproduction, particularly in sperm-oocyte interaction. 
Single-molecule techniques have emerged as incisive approaches for addressing a wide range of questions arising in contemporary biological research [Trends Biochem Sci 38:30–37, 2013; Nat Rev Genet 14:9–22, 2013; Curr Opin Struct Biol 2014, 28C:112–121; Annu Rev Biophys 43:19–39, 2014]. The analysis and interpretation of raw single-molecule data benefits greatly from the ongoing development of sophisticated statistical analysis tools that enable accurate inference at the low signal-to-noise ratios frequently associated with these measurements. While a number of groups have released analysis toolkits as open source software [J Phys Chem B 114:5386–5403, 2010; Biophys J 79:1915–1927, 2000; Biophys J 91:1941–1951, 2006; Biophys J 79:1928–1944, 2000; Biophys J 86:4015–4029, 2004; Biophys J 97:3196–3205, 2009; PLoS One 7:e30024, 2012; BMC Bioinformatics 288 11(8):S2, 2010; Biophys J 106:1327–1337, 2014; Proc Int Conf Mach Learn 28:361–369, 2013], it remains difficult to compare analysis for experiments performed in different labs due to a lack of standardization. Here we propose a standardized single-molecule dataset (SMD) file format. SMD is designed to accommodate a wide variety of computer programming languages, single-molecule techniques, and analysis strategies. To facilitate adoption of this format we have made two existing data analysis packages that are used for single-molecule analysis compatible with this format. Conclusion: Adoption of a common, standard data file format for sharing raw single-molecule data and analysis outcomes is a critical step for the emerging and powerful single-molecule field, which will benefit both sophisticated users and non-specialists by allowing standardized, transparent, and reproducible analysis practices. 
Understanding the dynamics of biological processes can substantially be supported by computational models in the form of nonlinear ordinary differential equations (ODE). Typically, this model class contains many unknown parameters, which are estimated from inadequate and noisy data. Depending on the ODE structure, predictions based on unmeasured states and associated parameters are highly uncertain, even undetermined. For given data, profile likelihood analysis has been proven to be one of the most practically relevant approaches for analyzing the identifiability of an ODE structure, and thus model predictions. In case of highly uncertain or non-identifiable parameters, rational experimental design based on various approaches has shown to significantly reduce parameter uncertainties with minimal amount of effort. In this work we illustrate how to use profile likelihood samples for quantifying the individual contribution of parameter uncertainty to prediction uncertainty. For the uncertainty quantification we introduce the profile likelihood sensitivity (PLS) index. Additionally, for the case of several uncertain parameters, we introduce the PLS entropy to quantify individual contributions to the overall prediction uncertainty. We show how to use these two criteria as an experimental design objective for selecting new, informative readouts in combination with intervention site identification. The characteristics of the proposed multi-criterion objective are illustrated with an in silico example. We further illustrate how an existing practically non-identifiable model for the chlorophyll fluorescence induction in a photosynthetic organism, D. salina, can be rendered identifiable by additional experiments with new readouts. Having data and profile likelihood samples at hand, the here proposed uncertainty quantification based on prediction samples from the profile likelihood provides a simple way for determining individual contributions of parameter uncertainties to uncertainties in model predictions. The uncertainty quantification of specific model predictions allows identifying regions, where model predictions have to be considered with care. Such uncertain regions can be used for a rational experimental design to render initially highly uncertain model predictions into certainty. Finally, our uncertainty quantification directly accounts for parameter interdependencies and parameter sensitivities of the specific prediction. 
The proliferation of the scientific literature in the field of biomedicine makes it difficult to keep abreast of current knowledge, even for domain experts. While general Web search engines and specialized information retrieval (IR) systems have made important strides in recent decades, the problem of accurate knowledge extraction from the biomedical literature is far from solved. Classical IR systems usually return a list of documents that have to be read by the user to extract relevant information. This tedious and time-consuming work can be lessened with automatic Question Answering (QA) systems, which aim to provide users with direct and precise answers to their questions. In this work we propose a novel methodology for QA based on semantic relations extracted from the biomedical literature. We extracted semantic relations with the SemRep natural language processing system from 122,421,765 sentences, which came from 21,014,382 MEDLINE citations (i.e., the complete MEDLINE distribution up to the end of 2012). A total of 58,879,300 semantic relation instances were extracted and organized in a relational database. The QA process is implemented as a search in this database, which is accessed through a Web-based application, called SemBT (available at -lj.si). We conducted an extensive evaluation of the proposed methodology in order to estimate the accuracy of extracting a particular semantic relation from a particular sentence. Evaluation was performed by 80 domain experts. In total 7,510 semantic relation instances belonging to 2,675 distinct relations were evaluated 12,083 times. The instances were evaluated as correct 8,228 times (68%). In this work we propose an innovative methodology for biomedical QA. The system is implemented as a Web-based application that is able to provide precise answers to a wide range of questions. A typical question is answered within a few seconds. The tool has some extensions that make it especially useful for interpretation of DNA microarray results. 
Quantitative molecular methods (QMMs) such as quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (q-PCR), reverse-transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR) and quantitative nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (QT-NASBA) are increasingly used to estimate pathogen density in a variety of clinical and epidemiological contexts. These methods are often classified as semi-quantitative, yet estimates of reliability or sensitivity are seldom reported. Here, a statistical framework is developed for assessing the reliability (uncertainty) of pathogen densities estimated using QMMs and the associated diagnostic sensitivity. The method is illustrated with quantification of Plasmodium falciparum gametocytaemia by QT-NASBA. The reliability of pathogen (e.g. gametocyte) densities, and the accompanying diagnostic sensitivity, estimated by two contrasting statistical calibration techniques, are compared; a traditional method and a mixed model Bayesian approach. The latter accounts for statistical dependence of QMM assays run under identical laboratory protocols and permits structural modelling of experimental measurements, allowing precision to vary with pathogen density. Traditional calibration cannot account for inter-assay variability arising from imperfect QMMs and generates estimates of pathogen density that have poor reliability, are variable among assays and inaccurately reflect diagnostic sensitivity. The Bayesian mixed model approach assimilates information from replica QMM assays, improving reliability and inter-assay homogeneity, providing an accurate appraisal of quantitative and diagnostic performance. Bayesian mixed model statistical calibration supersedes traditional techniques in the context of QMM-derived estimates of pathogen density, offering the potential to improve substantially the depth and quality of clinical and epidemiological inference for a wide variety of pathogens. 
Second-generation sequencers generate millions of relatively short, but error-prone, reads. These errors make sequence assembly and other downstream projects more challenging. Correcting these errors improves the quality of assemblies and projects which benefit from error-free reads. We have developed a general-purpose error corrector that corrects errors introduced by Illumina, Ion Torrent, and Roche 454 sequencing technologies and can be applied to single- or mixed-genome data. In addition to correcting substitution errors, we locate and correct insertion, deletion, and homopolymer errors while remaining sensitive to low coverage areas of sequencing projects. Using published data sets, we correct 94% of Illumina MiSeq errors, 88% of Ion Torrent PGM errors, 85% of Roche 454 GS Junior errors. Introduced errors are 20 to 70 times more rare than successfully corrected errors. Furthermore, we show that the quality of assemblies improves when reads are corrected by our software. Pollux is highly effective at correcting errors across platforms, and is consistently able to perform as well or better than currently available error correction software. Pollux provides general-purpose error correction and may be used in applications with or without assembly.
Many DNA copy-number variations (CNVs) are known to lead to phenotypic variations and pathogenesis. While CNVs are often only common in a small number of samples in the studied population or patient cohort, previous work has not focused on customized identification of CNV regions that only exhibit in subsets of samples with advanced data mining techniques to reliably answer questions such as “Which are all the chromosomal fragments showing nearly identical deletions or insertions in more than 30% of the individuals?”. We introduce a tool for mining CNV subspace patterns, namely SubPatCNV, which is capable of identifying all aberrant CNV regions specific to arbitrary sample subsets larger than a support threshold. By design, SubPatCNV is the implementation of a variation of approximate association pattern mining algorithm under a spatial constraint on the positional CNV probe features. In benchmark test, SubPatCNV was applied to identify population specific germline CNVs from four populations of HapMap samples. In experiments on the TCGA ovarian cancer dataset, SubPatCNV discovered many large aberrant CNV events in patient subgroups, and reported regions enriched with cancer relevant genes. In both HapMap data and TCGA data, it was observed that SubPatCNV employs approximate pattern mining to more effectively identify CNV subspace patterns that are consistent within a subgroup from high-density array data. SubPatCNV available through  a unique scalable open-source software tool that provides the flexibility of identifying CNV regions specific to sample subgroups of different sizes from high-density CNV array data. 
With recent development in sequencing technology, a large number of genome-wide DNA methylation studies have generated massive amounts of bisulfite sequencing data. The analysis of DNA methylation patterns helps researchers understand epigenetic regulatory mechanisms. Highly variable methylation patterns reflect stochastic fluctuations in DNA methylation, whereas well-structured methylation patterns imply deterministic methylation events. Among these methylation patterns, bipolar patterns are important as they may originate from allele-specific methylation (ASM) or cell-specific methylation (CSM). Utilizing nonparametric Bayesian clustering followed by hypothesis testing, we have developed a novel statistical approach to identify bipolar methylated genomic regions in bisulfite sequencing data. Simulation studies demonstrate that the proposed method achieves good performance in terms of specificity and sensitivity. We used the method to analyze data from mouse brain and human blood methylomes. The bipolar methylated segments detected are found highly consistent with the differentially methylated regions identified by using purified cell subsets. Bipolar DNA methylation often indicates epigenetic heterogeneity caused by ASM or CSM. With allele-specific events filtered out or appropriately taken into account, our proposed approach sheds light on the identification of cell-specific genes/pathways under strong epigenetic control in a heterogeneous cell population. 
In genomics, hierarchical clustering (HC) is a popular method for grouping similar samples based on a distance measure. HC algorithms do not actually create clusters, but compute a hierarchical representation of the data set. Usually, a fixed height on the HC tree is used, and each contiguous branch of samples below that height is considered a separate cluster. Due to the fixed-height cutting, those clusters may not unravel significant functional coherence hidden deeper in the tree. Besides that, most existing approaches do not make use of available clinical information to guide cluster extraction from the HC. Thus, the identified subgroups may be difficult to interpret in relation to that information. We develop a novel framework for decomposing the HC tree into clusters by semi-supervised piecewise snipping. The framework, called guided piecewise snipping, utilizes both molecular data and clinical information to decompose the HC tree into clusters. It cuts the given HC tree at variable heights to find a partition (a set of non-overlapping clusters) which does not only represent a structure deemed to underlie the data from which HC tree is derived, but is also maximally consistent with the supplied clinical data. Moreover, the approach does not require the user to specify the number of clusters prior to the analysis. Extensive results on simulated and multiple medical data sets show that our approach consistently produces more meaningful clusters than the standard fixed-height cut and/or non-guided approaches. The guided piecewise snipping approach features several novelties and advantages over existing approaches. The proposed algorithm is generic, and can be combined with other algorithms that operate on detected clusters. This approach represents an advancement in several regards: (1) a piecewise tree snipping framework that efficiently extracts clusters by snipping the HC tree possibly at variable heights while preserving the HC tree structure; (2) a flexible implementation allowing a variety of data types for both building and snipping the HC tree, including patient follow-up data like survival as auxiliary information.The data sets and R code are provided as supplementary files. The proposed method is available from Bioconductor as the R-package HCsnip. 
Estimation of individual ancestry from genetic data is useful for the analysis of disease association studies, understanding human population history and interpreting personal genomic variation. New, computationally efficient methods are needed for ancestry inference that can effectively utilize existing information about allele frequencies associated with different human populations and can work directly with DNA sequence reads. We describe a fast method for estimating the relative contribution of known reference populations to an individual’s genetic ancestry. Our method utilizes allele frequencies from the reference populations and individual genotype or sequence data to obtain a maximum likelihood estimate of the global admixture proportions using the BFGS optimization algorithm. It accounts for the uncertainty in genotypes present in sequence data by using genotype likelihoods and does not require individual genotype data from external reference panels. Simulation studies and application of the method to real datasets demonstrate that our method is significantly times faster than previous methods and has comparable accuracy. Using data from the 1000 Genomes project, we show that estimates of the genome-wide average ancestry for admixed individuals are consistent between exome sequence data and whole-genome low-coverage sequence data. Finally, we demonstrate that our method can be used to estimate admixture proportions using pooled sequence data making it a valuable tool for controlling for population stratification in sequencing based association studies that utilize DNA pooling. Our method is an efficient and versatile tool for estimating ancestry from DNA sequence data and is available from  
Forming a new species through the merger of two or more divergent parent species is increasingly seen as a key phenomenon in the evolution of many biological systems. However, little is known about how expression of parental gene copies (homeologs) responds following genome merger. High throughput RNA sequencing now makes this analysis technically feasible, but tools to determine homeolog expression are still in their infancy. Here we present HyLiTE – a single-step analysis to obtain tables of homeolog expression in a hybrid or allopolyploid and its parent species directly from raw mRNA sequence files. By implementing on-the-fly detection of diagnostic parental polymorphisms, HyLiTE can perform SNP calling and read classification simultaneously, thus allowing HyLiTE to be run as parallelized code. HyLiTE accommodates any number of parent species, multiple data sources (including genomic DNA reads to improve SNP detection), and implements a statistical framework optimized for genes with low to moderate expression. HyLiTE is a flexible and easy-to-use program designed for bench biologists to explore patterns of gene expression following genome merger. HyLiTE offers practical advantages over manual methods and existing programs, has been designed to accommodate a wide range of genome merger systems, can identify SNPs that arose following genome merger, and offers accurate performance on non-model organisms. 
